AWS accosiate questions
block 1 ([1-227] - no repetitions required)
block 2([228 - 491] - no repetitions required)
block 3([492-], creation phase, 0 out of 2 repetitions done)
block4 (https://www.examtopics.com/exams/amazon/aws-certified-cloud-practitioner-clf-c02/view/1/)


1. Whis ElasticCache option provides Multithread architecture, Memcached or Redis?
  Memcached

2. What is the point of using RDS Proxy?
  It manages large warm pool of connections, usefull for "Too many connections" error handling

3. Given cli call `aws s3api list-objects --bucket tdbucket --page-size 100` . What is the purpose of using --page-size
  To decrease number of listed object in each iteration. Full list would be requested in the end, but  but performs a larger number of service API calls in the background and retrieves a smaller number of items with each call.
  So it prevents timeout error

4. What's the default value of `aws s3api list-objects` `--page-size` option ?
  1000

5. There is Amazon API Gateway proxy integration with Lambda. Lamda returns XML, when called via API Gateway 502 status is returned. What's the possible reason?

  For API Gateway to pass the Lambda output as the API response to the client, the Lambda function must return the result in the following JSON format:
    {
        "isBase64Encoded": true|false,
        "statusCode": httpStatusCode,
        "headers": { "headerName": "headerValue", ... },
        "body": "..."
    }

6. What are disadvantages of using Memcached for Session managemment (compared to Reddis)?
  Memcached is not as highly available as Redis

7. what does the following command do? `aws cloudformation package`
  - packages the local artifacts
  - uploads local artifacts, such as source code for an AWS Lambda function or a Swagger file for an AWS API Gateway REST API, to an S3 bucket
  - returns a copy of your template, replacing references to local artifacts with the S3 location where the command uploaded the artifacts

8. Is it possible to package the Lambda locally and specify local path of the packaged file in the `CodeUri` property of SAM template?
  No, CodeUri should reference S3 only

9. What is lambda's /tmp storage size?
  512 MB – 10,240 MB

10. In context of DynamoDB Streams what parameter determine what information are written to the stream for this table? What are possible values?
  - StreamViewType
  - KEYS_ONLY, NEW_IMAGE, OLD_IMAGE, and NEW_AND_OLD_IMAGES

11. How to enable X-Ray tracing in Elastic Beanstalk?
  Enable the X-Ray daemon by including the `xray-daemon.config` configuration file in the `.ebextensions` directory of your source code.

12. How to set up health check url on Elastic Beanstalk?
  by including the healthcheckurl.config configuration file in the .ebextensions directory of your source code

13. IntegrationLatency vs Latency  metric in AWS. Explain difference
  - IntegrationLatency - BE work
  - Latency = IntegrationLatency + API Gateway internal operations,

14. Name ECS placement strategies
  - binpack
  - random
  - spread
  * additionaly you may use constrain distinctInstance

15. What VPC Flow logs are used for? Where they can be send to?
  The only purpose is to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC.
  They can be send to CloudWatch Logs or to Amazon S3.

16. Can I use CodeDeployDefault.HalfAtATime deployment stategy with EC2/Lambda? What it does?
  Deploys to up to half of the instances at a time (with fractions rounded down). The overall deployment succeeds if the application revision is deployed to at least half of the instances (with fractions rounded up). Otherwise, the deployment fails.

  EC2 - yes
  Lambda - no

17. how to calculate lambdas concurrent executions and what is default account limit?
  concurrent executions = (invocations per second) x (average execution duration in seconds)
  default limit per account is 1000

18. Lambda should have access to resources in private vpc subnet and be capable to communicate with client over Internet. How to acheive such behavior?
  - Specify subnet
  - Specify security group
  - Add a NAT gateway to your VPC to make sure there is access to the Internet
  - Ensure that the associated security group of the Lambda function allows outbound connections.

19. Do I need to set up elastic network interfaces (ENIs) to enable your Lambda function to connect securely to other resources within your private VPC?
  Not really, lambda can do it on it's own. What you need is to specify vpc subnet and security group

20. what is time range for sqs long polling?
  from 0 to 20 seconds

21. Is it likelly that large number of request causes API Gateway to throw 504 Error?
  No, ususally that would be 429 or 502. What is more likelly is that INTEGRATION_TIMEOUT reached and underlying resource did not responded. Max INTEGRATION_TIMEOUT = 29 seconds

22. What are the setting while creating CloudWatch Alarm?
  – Period - time in seconds. 1 datapoint is calculated over this period. If you choose one minute as the period, there is one datapoint every minute. basically - how long is the period

  – Evaluation Period - basically - how many period  Datapoints to Alarm should be present

  – Datapoints to Alarm - basically how many errors should be.  is the number of data points within the evaluation period that must be breaching to cause the alarm to go to the ALARM state. The breaching data points do not have to be consecutive, they just must all be within the last number of data points equal to Evaluation Period.

23. while utilizing CreateFunction CLI you got InvalidParameterValueException what is most likelly reason?
  To deploy function you need it's name, code and IAM role. Wrong iam can cause this

24. What exception would I get while utilizing CreateFunction CLI if lambda names have conflict?
  ResourceConflictException

25. What is general error code for AWS resources' internal error?
  ServiceException

26. What's Lambda default invocation type?
  RequestResponse

27. Given DynamoDB + APIGateway+Cache Enabled. What should be done to only allow authorized clients to invalidate an API Gateway cache entry when submitting API requests?
  Cache-Control: max-age=0
  Tick the `Require Authorization` checkbox in the Cache Settings of your API via the console.

28. What's max quantity of AWS X-Ray annotations per trace?
  50

29. What does Container Agent in ECS allow to do?
  allows container instances to connect to your cluster

30. Given AWS Step Functions. One of the Lambda functions sends an API call to a third-party payment service, which takes some time to complete. The Step Functions workflow needs to pause while the service validates the payment. It should only resume after the service sends, a notification to a webhook endpoint. How to achecive this?
  `waitForTaskToken` option allows a task to be paused until an external system signals its completion. When a task is configured with this option, Step Functions generates a unique token, which can be retrieved from the context object of the state machine. This token, for instance, can be stored in a data store for reference

  An external system, such as a webhook handler can then reference the token and call the `SendTaskSuccess` or `SendTaskFailure` method to signal Step Functions to resume the workflow.

31. Given S3 + Cloudfront. Subset of bucket should be visible only to some authorized users. How to acheive that with minimal app rework?
  Lambda@Edge is a pretty fine tool to perform authorization. Especially with Cognito user poll (so you won't manage users on your own)

  The solution with signed cookies/url may not be optimal since would require app rework.

32. How to include serverless app into SAM?
  via AWS::Serverless::Application - A serverless application can include one or more nested applications. You can deploy a nested application as a stand-alone artifact or as a component of a larger application.

33. Given Route 53 + Cloudfront + ALB + ELB. Task is to serve user to specific content depending on user's location, examples: https://tutorialsdojo.com/uk, https://tutorialsdojo.com/ph/. How can a developer incorporate this feature in the least amount of development overhead?
  Use CloudFront function that returns proper URL based on CloudFront-Viewer-Country. Trigger CloudFront finction on viewer request.
  On the other hand Route 53 routing is used more often not for content personalization but for directing traffic to specific resources.

34. App is doing Scan operation on DynamoDB. How to optimize read in most cost effective way?
  - Use Limit param to make more smaller requests in Scan
  - Use Query instead of scan if possible
  - Event though DAX would be a good for improving reading it's not very cost effective

35. How to set up Lambda to X-Ray communication, via env variables? WHich variables to use
  - _X_AMZN_TRACE_ID - tracing header (sampling decision + trace ID + parent segment id). If tracing header not received by lambda, lambda would generate one for you
  - AWS_XRAY_CONTEXT_MISSING - determines behavior when lambda tries to record X-ray data but tracing header is not available, default behavior is LOG_ERROR
  - AWS_XRAY_DAEMON_ADDRESS - daemon adsress in IP_ADDRESS:PORT format, can be used for direct sending data to it

36. `x-amz-server-side-encryption-aws-kms-key-id` header, why to use it in context of S3?
  to indicate a specific KMS key for object encryption durind PutObject

37. How long data can be stored in DynamoDB Streams?
  up to 24 hours

38. How to set up HTTPS communication between the viewers and CloudFront
  - Set the Viewer Protocol Policy to use HTTPS Only.
  - Set the Viewer Protocol Policy to use Redirect HTTP to HTTPS.

39. In what cases do I need SSL certificate in Cloudfront when I set up HTTPS integration?
  for viewer to CloudFront communication you don't need that ONLY WHEN you uses CloudFront with a default domain name , just add relevant Viewer Protocol Policy
  for viewer to CloudFront communication with custom domain name - yes you need that
  for CloudFront to Origin communication - yes you need it

40. How to use ALB with default SSL/TLS certificate?
  There is no such thing as default SSL/TLS certificate

41. Propose cost effective solution, you'll need to retrive object from S3, PII from object should be deleted.
  Use Amazon S3 Object Lambda

42. After adding API key to API Gateway some users got 403 error. How to allow access for that users?
  Associate the API keys for the premium users with the intended usage plan using the CreateUsagePlanKey operation.

43. can I use Transfer Acceleration for bucket 'data.tutorialsdojo.com'?
  No, for Transfer Acceleration name of bucket should be DNS complient and NOT INCLUDE dots. So you'll need to have bucket with different name + enable Transfer Acceleration

44. Which part of Cognito have ability to provide access to  enable unauthenticated identities (Developer-authenticated identities) Cognito Uer Poll or Cognito Identities
  Cognito Identities

45. What AWS X-Ray element can provide  more details about its downstream calls to various AWS resources?
  subsegments, it can contain additional details about a call to an AWS service, an external HTTP API, or an SQL database.
  For services that don’t send their own segments like Amazon DynamoDB, X-Ray uses subsegments to generate `inferred segments` and downstream nodes on the service map.
  subsegment may be created manually

46. What is `Inferred Segment` in AWS X-Ray?
  An inferred segment is generated by AWS X-Ray when your instrumented application interacts with external services or resources that are not instrumented with X-Ray(like Amazon DynamoDB).
  It provides basic information such as the API endpoint hit and the response status.
  subsegment may be created automatically only

47. What is the point of using `metadata` in AWS X-Ray?
  It records the calls to AWS services and resources that are made by the application

48. How to acheive proper ordering of messages while working with  Kinesis?
  API's that allows write are PutRecord or PutRecords
  Kinesis Data Streams attempts to process all records in each PutRecords request. A single record failure does not stop the processing of subsequent records.
  So, `PutRecords` does not quarantee the ordering of records.
  If you need to read records in the same order they are written to the stream, use `PutRecord` along with the  `SequenceNumberForOrdering` parameter.

49. Given Account A and Account B. Developer with access to account A needs to audit resources in accout B. Can this be solved with AWS Organizations.
  Not really, it simplifies account management, but not more.

50. Given AWS Elastic Beanstalk environment with RDS as part of environment. How to decouple?
  1) Use the blue / green deployment
  2) Create an RDS DB snapshot  and enable deletion protection
  3) Create a new Elastic Beanstalk environment with the necessary information to connect to the Amazon RDS instance.
  4) Before terminating the old Elastic Beanstalk environment, remove its security group rule first before proceeding. To connect to RDS propes security group is required.
  You can connect your environment to a database by adding a rule to your database’s security group that allows ingress from the autogenerated security group that Elastic Beanstalk attaches to your environment’s Auto Scaling group. However, doing so creates a dependency between the two security groups. Subsequently, when you attempt to terminate the environment, Elastic Beanstalk will be unable to delete the environment’s security group because the database’s security group is dependent on it.

51. Which headers should be sent to S3 when bucket has SSE-C encryption?
  x-amz-server-side​-encryption​-customer-algorithm - This header specifies the encryption algorithm. The header value must be “AES256”.

  x-amz-server-side-encryption-customer-key - This header provides the 256-bit, base64-encoded encryption key for Amazon S3 to use to encrypt or decrypt your data.

  x-amz-server-side-encryption-customer-key-MD5 - This header provides the base64-encoded 128-bit MD5 digest of the encryption key according to RFC 1321. Amazon S3 uses this header for a message integrity check to ensure the encryption key was transmitted without error.

52. What's the size limitations of lambda with attached layers?
  total upzipped size of lambda and layers (up to 5) should not exceed 250MB

53. Can container Instance IAM Roles be used with ECS on Fargate?
  No, you should eighter use IAM Roles attached to tasks or use ECS on EC2

54. How to attach Service-Linked Roles to ECS task?
  Service-Linked Roles is a unique type of IAM (Identity and Access Management) role that is linked directly to ECS. This role is designed to grant the ECS service permissions to call other AWS services on your behalf to manage the resources that you use with this service.
  So you can attach in to ECS but not to ECS task

55. EC2 instance need to read X-Ray Trace's details, what command should be used?
  TraceSummaries - to get the ids of traces
  BatchGetTraces - to get traces` detatails

56. It's required that for Elastic Beanstalk environment name, solution stack, and environment links should be configured. Which configuration file should the developer add in the source bundle to meet the above requirement?
  env.yaml
  This file format includes support for environment groups. To use groups, specify the environment name in the manifest with a `+` symbol at the end. When you create or update the environment, specify the group name with --group-name (AWS CLI) or --env-group-suffix (EB CLI).

57. A serverless application is using API Gateway with a non-proxy Lambda Integration. A developer was tasked to expose a GET method on a new `/getcourses` resource to invoke the Lambda function, which will allow the consumers to fetch a list of online courses in JSON format. The consumers must include a query string parameter named `courseType` in their request to get the data. What is better solution to accomplish this requirement, to configure method request OR to configure integration request?

  The flow or request: client -> method request -> itegration request -> lambda -> itegration response -> method response -> client.
  since method request comes first that's the best place

58 In context of Amazon Kinesis Data Stream, is that correct that the data records that are flowing to the parent shards will be lost when you reshard?
  No,  the data records are actually re-routed to flow to the child shards based on the hash key values that the data-record partition keys map to.

59. Can CodeDeploy deploy to on-premises servers?
  Yes

60. Name sources for CodeDeploy.
  - s3
  - bitbucket
  - github

61. What are deployment type available for CodeDeploy?
  In-place - stop instances in deployment group, install and start new version of app. Can be used with EC/On-premises platforms only

  Blue/green. - All AWS Lambda compute platform deployments are blue/green deployments. Can be used with EC/On-premises platforms as well

62. Explain Adaptive Authentication for the User Pool.
  This feature allows you configure your user pool to block suspicious sign-ins or add second factor authentication in response to an increased risk level.
  For each sign-in attempt, Amazon Cognito generates a risk score for how likely the sign-in request is to be from a compromised source.
  risk levels are low, medium and high

63. What does GetSessionToken STS call do?
  request params DurationSeconds, SerialNumber (of MFA device), TokenCode(value provided by MFA device)
  returns access key ID, a secret access key, and a security token that are temporary creds.

  Typically, you use GetSessionToken if you want to use MFA to protect programmatic calls to specific AWS API operations like Amazon EC2 StopInstances.

64. Can resoure policy be evaluated by IAM Policy Simulator?
  Yes

65. Which aws resourses may be scaled with Application Auto Scaling?
 - Amazon ECS
 - Amazon EC2
 - Amazon EC2 Spot Fleets
 - Amazon EMR clusters
 - Amazon AppStream 2.0 stacks and fleets
 - Amazon DynamoDB

66. Explain envelope encryption flow
  Encryption
    Generate a Data Key from KMS -> Encrypt plaintext data with a data key -> and then encrypt the data key with a top-level plaintext (not encrypted) -> Store the Encrypted Data and Encrypted Data Key

  Decryption
    Retrieve the Encrypted Data and Encrypted Data Key -> Decrypt the Data Key (call to KMS where master key is stored) -> Use the Plaintext Data Key to Decrypt Data -> Erase Plaintext Data Key from Memory

67. What do AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity or AssumeRoleWithSAML STS API calls do?
  AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity -  returns a set of temporary security credentials for federated users who are authenticated through public identity providers such as Amazon, Facebook, Google, or OpenID.

  AssumeRoleWithSAML - returns a set of temporary security credentials for users who have been authenticated via a SAML authentication response.

68. DynamoDB Streams can be consumed by what exactly?
  AWS Lambda
  Kinesis Adapter. Recommended for real-time processing. intentionally similar to that of Kinesis Streams

69. SAM + Lambda. How to deploy updated version of SAM app via cli?
  sam build (resolve dependencies and construct deployment artifacts for all functions and layers) + sam deploy

70. Under which SAM property should  you specify lambda's inline code / lambda's reference to S3 code in SAM template?
  InlineCode / CodeUri

71. Is Lambda service require some concureency to stay unreserved?
  Yes, AWS Lambda will keep the unreserved concurrency pool at a minimum of 100 concurrent executions so that functions that do not have specific limits set can still process requests

72. If lambda's concurrency limit is set to 0 would it use all unreserved concurrency?
  No, this will throttle all future invocations of this function

73. List all CodeDeploy deployment options.
  - In-place (for EC2/On-premises)
  - Canary (for Lambda/ECS)
  - Linear (for Lambda/ECS)
  - All-at-once (for Lambda/ECS)

74. Explain difference in use-case between `ProvisionedThroughputExceededException` and `ThrottlingException` for DynamoDB with secondary index.
  - insufficient provisioned write capacity for the global secondary index would cause `ProvisionedThroughputExceededException`
  - if the rate of requests exceeds the allowed throughput you'll get `ThrottlingException`

75. How to accomplish monitoring on ECS with X-RAY?
  - Create a Docker image that runs the X-Ray daemon, upload it to a Docker image repository, and then deploy it to your Amazon ECS cluster.
  - Configure the port mappings and network mode settings in your TASK DEFINITION FILE to allow traffic on UDP port 2000.

  * PAY ATTENTION: UDP not TCP

76. Which types of secondary indexes does DynamoDB support?
  – Global secondary index (need additional capacity, created when table exists)
  – Local secondary index(do not need additional capacity, created with table)

77. Use cli, perform Elastic Beanstalk app update
  your application as a zip + eb deploy

78. Do you have the same endpoint for write and read if you have RDS Read Replica?
  No, you have 2

79. Is that true that X-RAY subset of `segment` fields is indexed by X-Ray for use with filter expressions?
  Yes

80. What are possible AWS X-RAY subsegment `namespace` field values? Explain the differences.
  aws - for AWS SDK calls
  remote - for other downstream calls

81. Explain what is AWS X-RAY subsegment `http` field for?
  It's http object with information about an outgoing HTTP call

82. Explain what is AWS X-RAY subsegment `aws` field for?
  It's aws object with information about downstream AWS resource that your application called.

83. Can AWS X-RAY subsegment have `subsegments` field?
  Yes, subsegment may include other subsegments

84. What AWS X-RAY subsegment fields do contain information about errors?
  error
  throttle
  fault
  cause

85. Explain what is AWS X-RAY subsegment `precursor_ids` field for?
  It contains array of subsegment ids, such subsegments have the same parent and was completed before such subsegment

86. What is kineses data stream min/max/default data retention period?
  24 hours/365 days/ 24 hours

87. Do you have to install and use the CodeDeploy agent installed on your EC2 instances and ECS cluster when using CodeDeploy?
  EC2 - YES
  ECS - NO

88. How to calculate number of concurrent execution for Lambda's poll based events for Kinesis Stream?
  max concurrency would be equal to number of shards, since it's a poll based event

89. Given cloudfront backed by lambdas. Ocassionally, it returns 504 status code. How to remediate this issue QUICKY?
  Configure an origin failover by creating an origin group with two origins

90. In what cases using CloudFront Function is acceptable for authorization?
  When it's used for token validation or validation of other request metadata.

91. 504 status code for API Gateway. What can cause it?
  - INTEGRATION_FAILURE
  - INTEGRATION_TIMEOUT

92. What is Amazon Cognito Sync?
  Service that allows cross-device data syncing of app-related data. Can cache data locally. Data is stored as key-value pairs.
  This data is associated with an Amazon Cognito identity, so that it can be accessed across logins and devices.
  Each dataset limit is 1 MB. You can associate up to 20 datasets with an identity.

93. Waht is AWS Device Farm?
  app testing service that lets you test and interact with your Android, iOS, and web apps

94. I need custom FIPS 140-2 compliance for crypto store, what should I chose besides KMS?
  HSM

95. I need to perform E2E testing for FrontendApp stored in github. How to accossiate this app with Amplify to use E2E testing using Cypress. How to achieve that?
  Update the amplify.yml file with appropriate configuration settings for Cypress (enable Amplify to run the tests during the build process).
  Connect the Github repository to AWS Amplify Hosting

96. In context of AWS amplify what files aws-exports.js and  amplifyconfiguration.json are used for?
  - a configuration file containing information for an Amplify application’s region, user pool, or identity pool
  - aws-exports.js - for android or iOS
  - amplifyconfiguration.json - for web

97. Kinesis shards + EC2. You are required to find most cost-effective and highly available way, the system should have enough shards and EC2 instances in order to handle failover and adequately process the amount of data coming in and out of the stream. Choose option: 1) 4 shards : 8 instances 2) 4 shards : 2 instances
  correct answer is 4 shards : 2 instances, becouse other option means 4 instances doing nothing, so it is not really cost-effective

98. Given ECS + AWS CodeDeploy. What are REQUIRED property of AppSpec file in the resources section to successfully deploy the microservice?
  - TaskDefinition – It is specified with the ARN of the task definition.

  - ContainerName – This is the name of the Amazon ECS container that contains your Amazon ECS application. It must be a container specified in your Amazon ECS task definition.

  - ContainerPort – This is the port on the container where traffic will be routed.

99. How to prevent Amazon Kinesis Data Stream to receive data twice when consumer send's it twice?
  embed a primary key (id with value uuid()) within the record, that prevents duplication

100. What lambda property should be used for setting DLQ?
  DeadLetterConfig

101. I need Cross-region replication (CRR) for S3 bucket. Which conditions should be met to do that?
  – The source and destination buckets must have VERSIONING enabled.

  – The source and destination buckets must be in different AWS Regions.

  – Amazon S3 must have permissions to replicate objects from that source bucket to the destination bucket on your behalf.

102. Which AWS services can the developer use to safely import the SSL/TLS certificate?
  - AWS Certificate Manager - prefered choise but may not be supported in some regions. Can request certificate or use external. ACM provided certificates have auto-renewal
  - IAM (IAM certificate store) - securely encrypts your private keys and stores the encrypted version in IAM SSL certificate storage. Cannot create it's own certificates an cannot use ACM provided certificates

103. Given EC2 with compromizes root EBS volume. How to detach the root volume?
  - stop instance + detach the volume
  - OR terminate EC2 instance

104. Given  ECS  on EC2. You need to group your container instances by certain attributes such as Availability Zone, instance type, or custom metadata. How to acheive that?
  Cluster Query Language allows you to to group container instances by a specific attribute (you are supposed to define such attributes).

105. You are supposed to use multipart upload into S3 SSE-KMS encrypted bucket. What are the internal steps of upload and what KMS permissions you should have?
  S3 generates a data key from your KMS key and encrypt the file -> broke file into parts -> decrypt and assemble encrypted file parts -> encrypt whole file -> store it in S3
  - Since file should be encrypted with dataKey you need `kms:GenerateDataKey*`
  - Since file parts should be decrypted you need `kms:Decrypt`

106. List S3 oprerations supporting conditional write.
  - PutItem
  - UpdateItem
  - DeleteItem
  - BatchWriteItem

107. Given Java app. The application must be configured to easily trace all its downstream requests, such as Apache HTTP requests, AWS SDK requests, and SQL queries. The ability to send traces to multiple different tracing backends without having to re-instrument the application code is required. What solutions is relevant?
  Install the AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry Collector and set up the AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry to trace all the downstream API calls

108. I need to reference AMI IDs in CloudFormation template. I use the value from Systems Manager Parameter Store. Do I need to manage and update AMI IDs in Systems Manager Parameter Store.
  Not really SSM can manage this part on it's own. This is SSM's public parameter that can be accessed via '/aws/service/ami-amazon-linux-latest' (there are another keys for windows and iOS). However you can store and manage other custom parameters in SSM.

109. Given Swagger file (OpenAPI v2.0 | v3.0). You are tasked to create API Gateway from it. What is the easies way?
  Import their Swagger or OpenAPI definitions to API Gateway using the AWS Console.

110. What is `request parameter-based` Lambda authorizer?
  it's an authorization  approach where  caller’s identity in a combination of headers, query string parameters, stageVariables, and $context variables

111. For how long DynamoDB Stream events can be stored?
  up to 24 hours

112. What Amazon Data Firehose do in a nutshell?
  transform and load data to store or analytics tool

113. Is that correct that Amazon S3 with SSE-C does not store the encryption key you provide but instead, stores a randomly salted hash-based message authentication code (HMAC)?
  Yes, this statement is correct

114. Is that correct that the salted HMAC value (of s3 encryption key) can be used to derive the value of the encryption key or to decrypt the contents of the encrypted object?
  No.

115. Given S3 SSE-C. To decrypt content of an encrypted object do you need HMAL salt of key, or key itself?
  key itself

116. I need to perform rolling ECS Deployment. Can I use CodeDeploy?
  no, the only awailable types of deployment for CodeDeploy are In-Place and Blue/Green (Canary|Linear|All at once)

117. Lambda is chosen as compute service. It's using the C++ programming language. How to deploy C++ Lambda?
  - Create a new layer which contains the Custom Runtime for C++
  - launch a Lambda function which uses that runtime.

  A runtime is a program that runs a Lambda function’s handler method when the function is invoked. You can include a runtime in your function’s deployment package in the form of an executable file named `bootstrap`.

118. In context of CORS what ExposeHeader does?
  Identifies the response headers  that customers are able to access from their applications

119. Which fields should be specified in an ECS Task Definition to set the placement strategy?
  In an ECS Task Definition, the placement strategy is defined using the placementStrategy array. Each object within this array should specify two properties: type and field.
    type: This property defines the strategy type. Common strategies include random, spread, and binpack.
    field: This property specifies the field over which the strategy should be applied. Available values include instanceId, host, or custom attribute key-value pairs such as attribute:ecs.availability-zone.

120. How to get consumed capacity of DynamoDB write?
  PutItem/UpdateItem/DeleteItem can take additionan field `ReturnConsumedCapacity`: 'TOTAL' | 'INDEXES' | 'NONE' (default)
    TOTAL — the total number of write capacity units consumed.

    INDEXES — returns the total number of write capacity units consumed, with subtotals for the table and any secondary indexes that were affected by the operation.

    NONE — no write capacity details are returned.

121. Given SQL injection attempts to your app. What service may protect you?
  AWS WAF - it monitors the HTTP and HTTPS requests that are forwarded to an Amazon API Gateway API, Amazon CloudFront or an Application Load Balancer

122. What is Amazon Guard​Duty in a nutshell?
  It's a threat detection service that continuously monitors malicious activity and unauthorized behavior to protect your AWS accounts and workloads

123. Is that a truth that Amazon API Gateway exposes only https endpoints and not http?
  Yes, that's correct. Amazon API Gateway does not support unencrypted (HTTP) endpoints

124. What's a lambda default timeout?
  3 sec

125. Given Microsoft SQL Server on RDS. It's required to data be encrypted BEFORE it's writtent into DB, as well as decrypting this data on read operations. How to acheive that?
  Enable Transparent Data Encryption (TDE). It's an option for Microsoft SQL Servers.

  There is a DB Master key. There is a certificate which is generated from the database master key, is used to protect the data encryption keys.

  Database Encryption Key (DEK) is protected (encrypted) using the certificate derived from the DMK.

  Database encryption key performs an actual encryption and decryption of data.  Amazon RDS backs up and manages the database master key and the TDE certificate. Master key auto rotation is performed internally by RDS.

126. Given Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) directory service. It should be integrated to AWS VPC using IAM. Identity store that is used is not compatible with SAML. How to perform an integration?
  If your identity store is not compatible with SAML 2.0, then you can build a custom identity broker application to perform a similar function.
  flow: app -> identity broken -> get data from Identity store -> if ok make call to STS for temporary credentials (AssumeRole | GetFederationToken) -> return temporary creds to app

127. List Lambda best practices.
  – Separate the Lambda handler (entry point) from your core logic (no core logic in handler itself).

  – Take advantage of Execution Context

  – Use AWS Lambda Environment Variables to pass operational parameters to your function.

  – Minimize your deployment package size to its runtime necessities.

  – Minimize the complexity of your dependencies

  – Avoid using recursive code

128. In context of CloudFormation CLI what does command `cfn-init` do?
  Use to retrieve and interpret resource metadata, install packages, create files, and start/stop services.

129. In context of CloudFormation CLI what does command `cfn-signal` do?
  The cfn-signal helper script signals CloudFormation to indicate whether Amazon EC2 instances have been successfully created or updated.
  If you install and configure software applications on instances, you can signal CloudFormation when those software applications are ready.
  So, you can synchronize other resources in the stack when the prerequisite resource or application is ready.

130. In context of CloudFormation CLI what does command `cfn-get-metadata` do?
  Use to retrieve metadata for a resource or path to a specific key.

131. In context of CloudFormation CLI what does command `cfn-hup` do?
  Use to check for updates to metadata and execute custom hooks when changes are detected.

132. I have unpackaged app and plan to call `sam deploy`, do I need to call `sam package` before it?
  Not nessesarally, `sam deploy` does package implicitly. However, don't forget to build the app.

133. Explain given IAM condition:
  "Condition": {
    "Null": {
      "s3:x-amz-server-side-encryption": "true"
    }
  }

  condition is met if s3:x-amz-server-side-encryption header is not present. Null condition tests absence of key

134. Given global secondary indexes on DynamoDB. Is that correct that when you query this index, you can choose either eventual consistency or strong consistency?
  No, Queries on global secondary indexes support eventual consistency only.

135. Is that correct that lambda automatically creates Elastic IPs that enable your function to connect securely to other resources within your private VPC?
  No, it creates ENI (Elastic Network Interface) in this case

136.Given AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Parameter Store. What are additional features provided once you change from Standard tier to Advance tier?
  It allow you to have Parameter policies
  Parameter Store offers the following types of policies:

    Expiration – deletes the parameter at a specific date

    ExpirationNotification – sends an event to Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) when the specified expiration time is reached (parameter is about to expire). By using this policy, you can receive notifications before the expiration time is reached, in units of days or hours.

    NoChangeNotification – sends an event to Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) when a parameter has not been modified for a specified period of time (parameter reached expiration date)

137. I need to track percentage of the CPU bandwidth or the total memory consumed by each process in RDS. What tool to use?
  Use Enhanced Monitoring in RDS, it provides metrics in real time for the operating system (OS) that your DB instance runs on. BTW you cannot use it on Aurora

138. Given web application that interact with multiple other services.  All requests must be traced in X-Ray, including any downstream calls made to AWS resources. What is the prefered way?
  - Use X-Ray SDK to generate segment documents with subsegments (downsteam calls information)
  - send them to the X-Ray daemon, which will buffer them and upload to the X-Ray API in batches

139. How to send segment documents directly to X-Ray?
  use PutTraceSegments API

140. What is max size of X-Ray segment document?
  64 kb (JSON formatted string)

141. What is a trace segment in context of X-Ray?
  A trace segment is just a JSON representation of a request that your application serves.

142. Given ECS `spread` placement strategy. Which attribute it would use by default to place tasks?
  ecs.availability-zone

143. Given ECS and some constrains that you specified both implicitly or explicitly. Tasks should be scheduled on instances with enough resources to run them. Which placement startegy require the least configuration?
  'random'

144. In context of API Gateway what the difference between Lambda proxy integration and Lambda custom integration?
  Lambda proxy integration (AWS_PROXY) - just pass the request to lambda. You only need to specify Method + Lambda ARN
  Lambda custom integration (AWS) - you also specify how the incoming request data is mapped to the integration request and how the resulting integration response data is mapped to the method response.

145. What `instance profile` does in context of EC2?
  The instance profile contains the role and can provide the role’s temporary credentials to an application that runs on the instance

146. Given S3 Bucket. To comply with the new security policy, the developer must ensure that the data is encrypted at rest using an encryption key that is provided and managed by the company. The change should also provide AES-256 encryption to their data. What encryption options can be used?
  - SSE-C
  - Encrypt the data on the client-side before sending to Amazon S3 using companie's own master key.

147. Given App integrated with RDS. You plan to use 'Annotation' atribute of X-Ray to index logs. In what case should you place 'Annotation' in segment|subsegment?
  - subsegment - info about downstream call to RDS
  - segment - info about client's call to app itself

148. Under which Cloudformation (not SAM) property of lambda can you place the inline code / code in S3?
  "ZipFile" for inline code
  "CodeUri" - code in S3

149. Given AWS Elastic Beanstalk on EC2. Which IAM managed policy does Elastic Beanstalk use for the X-Ray daemon to upload data to X-Ray?
  AWSXRayDaemonWriteAccess

150. I need multicontainer Docker platform. It should automatically handles tasks such as provisioning of the resources, load balancing, auto-scaling, monitoring, and placing the containers across the cluster. What is the easiest way to accomplish the above requirement?
  Use Elastic Beanstalk. You cannot use ECS since it lacks that additional features.

151. Describe AWS X-Ray daemon.
  The AWS X-Ray daemon is a software application that listens for traffic on UDP port 2000, gathers raw segment data, and relays it to the AWS X-Ray API. The daemon works in conjunction with the AWS X-Ray SDKs and must be running so that data sent by the SDKs can reach the X-Ray service.

152. Can Local Secondary Index be created on already existing table?
  No

153. Are Strongly consistent reads supported on local secondary indexes?
  Yes

154. What is Amazon Redshift Spectrum?
  Amazon Redshift Spectrum is an extension of Amazon Redshift, the fully managed, petabyte-scale data warehouse service in the cloud.
  Redshift Spectrum allows you to use standard SQL to query data directly in Amazon S3
  Use cases: Data Lake Querying, Historical Data Analysis

155. What does AWS AppSync do?
  With AppSync, you can build scalable applications, including those requiring real-time updates, on a range of data sources such as NoSQL data stores, relational databases, HTTP APIs, and your custom data sources with AWS Lambda.

  For mobile and web apps, AppSync additionally provides local data access when devices go offline, and data synchronization with customizable conflict resolution, when they are back online.

  Simular to AWS Cognito Sync, but allows multiple users to synchronize and collaborate in real time on shared data.

156. Given service serving images from public S3. You need to prevent applications not owned by you from using such images. What is most optimal solution?
  Use a CloudFront web distribution with signed URLs or signed cookies.
  What is less attractive solution is to make bucket private and add access via signed URL only since that solution wouldn't scale well.

157. Given AWS Account. Lambda concurrency limit elevated to 2000 by support request ticket. What is min unreserved concurrency in this case?
  It's still 100

158. Given unpackaged version of app. You plan to deploy it with command `aws cloudformation deploy`. Do you need to package it before command execution?
  Yes, unlike sam deploy, `aws cloudformation deploy` does not package app implicitly

159. Given EC2 instances managed by Auto Scaling Group which is created from launch template. I need to allow EC2 instances to use cloudwatch:PutMetricData. Can I modify existing launch template or should I create a new one with appropriate role?
  You can’t modify a launch template after you’ve created it

160. What does `cdk synthesize`(alias cdk synth) command do?
  generates a CloudFormation template from your CDK code

161. What does `cdk bootstrap` command do?
  provisions the necessary resources in the AWS environment to manage and deploy your CDK applications, such as IAM roles and the S3 bucket that the CDK uses for deployments

162. What does `cdk context` command do?
  cache context information about your AWS environment that it retrieves during the execution of CDK commands. This information can include things like availability zones, VPC details, or any other AWS environment details that the CDK needs to know to synthesize your stacks.

163. What does `cdk import` command do?
  allows you to bring existing resources into a CDK stack using CloudFormation resource imports

164. How to authenticate to CodeCommit?
  - Set-up a Git credential helper (CLI) using your access key credentials specified in your AWS `credential profile`. Credential profile stores a copy of an IAM user’s AWS access key ID and AWS secret access key and default region
  - Generate HTTPS Git credentials for AWS CodeCommit. Specify the credentials in the `Git Credential Manager`.

165. What for is AWSLambdaBasicExecutionRole role?
  For CloudWatch communication ( logs:CreateLogGroup, logs:CreateLogStream, logs:PutLogEvents)

166. Explain difference between commands `sam local invoke` and `sam local start-lambda`
  - sam local start-lambda - starts a local endpoint that emulates the AWS Lambda service (whole stack Lambda + API Gateway if any)
  - sam local invoke - start execution of a one certain lambda

167. Given ECS on EC2. Container instance is terminated in the stopped state. Do I need to manually deregistered container instance in the Amazon EC2 Console?
  Even though it's ECS on EC2, you need to use Amazon ECS Console and not on the Amazon EC2 Console

168. What's AWS KMS quota limit?
  5,500 (or 10,000 or 30,000 depending upon your AWS Region) operations per second

169. I need to extract Lambda's log stream name form lambda handler. Where can i find such name?
  in 'Context' of lambda, property 'log_stream_name'

170. Given ALB + Lambda. I need to extract all identical query parameters key that is supplied in a request. What should I enable?
  Enable the multi-value headers on the Application Load Balancer.

171. Can I replace ALB + Lambda to NLB + Lambda?
  No, Network Load Balancer does not support Lambda as target

172. Given CloudFront + S3. Developer need to update the images immediately without waiting for the object’s expiration date. How to achive that?
  Update the images by using versioned file names + update the links in your web application or website to point updated file version

173. It's required to start AWS Elastic Beanstalk to deploy a microservice application. Where to configure the container definitions?
  Dockerrun.aws.json

174. Is following statement correct? Standard generic and preconfigured Docker platforms on Elastic Beanstalk support only a single Docker container per Elastic Beanstalk environment.
  Yes, if you need a your Amazon EC2 instances run multiple Docker containers side by side you should add configuration file named Dockerrun.aws.json

175. You are required to integrate legacy web service that uses an XML-based Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) interface through API Gateway. How to achieve this?
  Flow should be the following:
  app (JSON) -> Cloudfront integration request (map JSON to XML) -> send xml to lambda -> send xml to legacy  web service using SOAP -> xml response to lambda -> json responce to Cloudfront -> json responce to app

176. Which X-Ray features allows you to group the X-RAY traces?
  annotations

177. What're DynamoDB's TransactWriteItems limits?
  up to 25 items, up to 4mb total.

178. Why should I use developer-authenticated identities in Amazon Cognito?
  to register/authentiacate user with your own authentication process with Amazon Cognito's ability to synchronize user data and access AWS resources
  `GetOpenIdTokenForDeveloperIdentity` API can be used to get Cognito token, which end user exchange to temporary credentials with `AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity` API call

179. App uses third party creds which is passed to Cognito. What does Cognito returns?
  it returns Cognito ID ('sub' field of JWT token) which can be exchanged for temporary credentials via Cognito Identity

180. Which language environment are available for lambdas?
  Java, Go(cannot create new), PowerShell, Node.js, C#, Python, and Ruby

181. What to do if Lambda faced `ModuleNotFoundError`?
  - install dependencies locally
  - package dependencies into zip file
  - upload it to lambda

182. AWS CodeBuild is configured to run with a proxy server for privacy and security reasons. A `RequestError` timeout error appears on CloudWatch whenever CodeBuild is accessed. Sugest possible reasons?
  - `ssl-bump` is not configured properly.
  - Your organization’s security policy does not allow you to use `ssl-bump`.
  - Your `buildspec.yml` file does not have proxy settings specified using a `proxy` element.

183. What's the limits of BatchGetItem in DynamoDB?
  up to 100 items in single batch
  up to 16 MB in total
  up to 1MB per partition

184. When UnprocessedKeys may occured while performing DynamoDB's BatchGetItem operation?
  – The response size limit is exceeded
  – The table’s provisioned throughput is exceeded
  – More than 1MB per partition is requested
  – An internal processing failure occurs.

185. given publically accesseble webhook backed by lambda. Lambda should ensure that the Lambda function executes the domain logic only when a webhook request comes from a valid user. secret key should be included in request headers. How to configure  function URL?
  1) set "lambda:FunctionUrlAuthType" to "NONE", that would make it publically accesseble. Other possible value is 'AWS_IAM' which allows to invoke lambda with proper IAM user or role only (not suitable for owr case).

  2) Write a custom authorization logic based on a signature provided in the HTTP headers

186. Given Elastic Beanstalk deployed from S3 bucket. Lifecycle is enabled to keep last 5 versions. App code gets deleted from S3. How to fix that, so source bundle would stay in S3?
  Configure the `Retention` setting to retain the source bundle in the S3 bucket.

187. In context of AWS CodeDeploy is that always correct, that on failed deployment CodeDeploy redeploys the last known good version of an application with a new deployment ID?
  That's correct for all cases except 'blue-green'. In case of blue-green it reroutes traffic back to the blue environment and terminates the green environment

188. Can I import a custom key material to an asymmetric KMS key or symmetric KMS key?
  For custom key materials -  symmetric KMS key only.

189. Is it possible to temporary disable and re-enable KMS keys?
  Yes.

190. What is custom key store for AWS KMS?
  CloudHSM

191. Which KMS keys cannot be auto-rotated?
  - asymmetric keys
  - keys in custom key stores
  - imported keys

192. Given Step function. You are required to capture lambda's error with `Catch` block.  It is required to aggregate all the data that passes through the nodes if the process fails. How to set up Step function to include each node’s input data with its output?
  use `ResultPath` parameter of `Catch` block. It determines what input is sent to the state specified in the Next field.

193. Step function state Machine should handle and recover from State exception errors. How to acheive that?
  Use `Catch` and `Retry` fields in the state machine definition.

194. Why should I use `ResultPath` field  in Step function?
  To determine whether input/output or their combination is passed to the state output.

195. I need caching solution for RDS Multi-AZ replication is required. What should I choose Redis of Memcached?
  Memcached does not support replication, so choose Redis

196. Which AWS services can the developer configure with Elastic Beanstalk?
  EC2, ALB, Cloudwatch

197. Team is required to came up with solution that store internal npm packages used by the application. CodePipeline should be triggered on package update. How to acheive that?
  - Establish an AWS CodeArtifact repository to store the npm packages.
  - Configure an Amazon EventBridge rule to detect changes in the repository and trigger CodePipeline pipeline builds.
  * CodeArtifact is a secure and scalable artifact management service offering a centralized repository for storing, managing, and distributing software packages and their dependencies

198. What AWS service are the most optional choise for feature flag config?
  AppConfig

199. You are supposed to troubleshoot latency issues between Lambda and S3. How to troubleshoot?
  - add AWS X-Ray SDK integration into lambda.
  - redeploy lambda
  - Activate X-Ray tracing

200. Can ALB be directly integrated with your company's OpenID Connect (OIDC) identity provider (IdP)?
  yes

201. How to replicate large set of data (around 60 TB) from s3 to on-premise servers once per month in the most cost-efficient way?
  Export the data monthly from the existing S3 bucket to an AWS Snowball Edge Storage Optimized device. Ship the device to the on-premises location. Transfer the data. Return the device a week later. The base price covers the device and 10 days of usage at the on-premises location. If the company returns the device within a week, the company pays the base price and the price for data transfer out of AWS.

202. Which components are required to build a site-to-site VPN connection to AWS?
  - A virtual private gateway or a transit gateway (attach it to required AWS VPC)

  - A customer gateway device

  - A customer gateway

203. What is max Provisioned IOPS for SSD EBS volume?
  Up to 64,000 IOPS for io1 volumes.

204. What is the maximum IOPS for a General Purpose SSD (gp3) EBS volume, and does it depend on the volume size?
  Up to 16,000 IOPS. Unlike gp2, gp3 IOPS do not depend on the volume size.

205. What's General Purpose SSD (gp2) EBS volume max IOPS, does it depends on volume size?
  Up to 16,000 IOPS. The IOPS for gp2 volumes are volume size-dependent at a rate of 3 IOPS per GB (above 33.3 GB), with the maximum capacity achieved at 5,334 GiB.

206. How can I increace General Purpose SSD (gp2) EBS volume IOPS?
  by increasing volume size. For EBS gp2 volumes, it has max. IOPS of 16,000 or equivalent 5334 GB (3 IOPS/GiB)

207. It's required to choose compute service for app which can be scaled, have minimal price when idle and it should not be a lambda.
  ECS on Fargate would be the cheapest option

208. Does Aurora Serverless incur compute costs when it is idle?
  No, ulike usual (provisioned) version of Aurora

209. A company asks a solutions architect to implement a pilot light disaster recovery (DR) strategy for an existing on-premises application. The application is self contained and does not need to access any databases. Which solution will implement a pilot light DR strategy?

  Recreate the application hosting environment on AWS by using Amazon EC2 instances and stop the EC2 instances. When the on-premises application fails, start the stopped EC2 instances and direct 100% of application traffic to the EC2 instances that are running in the AWS Cloud.

210. Given EC2 + Auto Scaling group + ALB. App take up to 15 minutes to respond to a request. There is a concern HTTP 5xx errors for client. What should the developer do to ensure that user requests will be completed before instances are terminated on scale-down?

  Increase the deregistration delay timeout for the target group of the instances to greater than 900 seconds.

  By default, the Application Load Balancer waits 300 seconds before the completion of the deregistration process, which can help in-flight requests to the target become complete. To change the amount of time that the Application Load Balancer waits, update the deregistration delay value.

211. A user-defined data should also be present to expedite the troubleshooting process. What should I use in context of X-RAY subsegment, annotations or metadata ?
  metadata, it's literaly the only use case for metadata

212. What is S3 Object Lock feature?
  S3 feature preventing object to be updated/deleted for some period of time or infinitelly. Good choise for write-once-read-many (WORM) model, for meeting regulatory restrictions or as additional layer of protection agains object deletion

213. Is SSM Parameter Store (Standard tier) free of charge
  Yes, which can make it more cost effective solution than AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store

214. Given AWS X-Ray subsegment with annotations on it. Developer should instrument it to identify any performance bottlenecks. How to utilize it in order to identify and filter out specific data from the trace?

  - Fetch the trace IDs and annotations using the GetTraceSummaries API

  - use filter expressions in X-Ray console

215. Why does S3 Object Lambda do?
  Basically thats tiny lambda runnning on S3 GET requests. It allows to restrict or modify the data returned to caller. Use cases: on the fly data transformation, filtering rows, redacting confidential data, dynamically resizing images

216. Can I use canary deployment for lambda and Elastic Beanstalk?
  for lambda - yes
  for Elastic Beanstalk - no

217. When to use `sam sync` and when to avoid it?
  when working with prod env - avoid it and use sam deploy
  when working on test env you may use it or rapid development testing

218. Is CloudFormation StackSets a regional resourse?
  Yes, even though it would deploy resourses to different regions you can ony access StackSet from the region where it was created

219. I use AWS X-Ray SDK PutTraceSegments api. What should I send to it?
  segment documents with subsegments, NOT trace segment(s)

220. how to access api gateway stage variable in lambda?
  event.stageVariables

221. What is write sharding in context of DynamoDB?
  technique to make partition key well distributed. Ways to acheive that:
    - add a random number to the partition key values to distribute the items among partitions (Sharding Using Random Suffixes)
    - you can use a number that is calculated based on something that you are querying on (Sharding Using Calculated Suffixes).

222. What API Gateway Private Integrations is used for?
  API Gateway Private Integrations enable you to securely expose your HTTP/HTTPS resources within your Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), such as applications running on Amazon EC2 instances or services hosted on AWS Elastic Beanstalk, without exposing them to the public internet.

223. A company has 5 different applications running on several On-Demand EC2 instances. The DevOps team is required to set up a graphical representation of the key performance metrics for each application. These system metrics must be available on a single shared screen for more effective and visible monitoring. What DevOps should do?

    Set up a custom CloudWatch namespace with a unique metric name for each application.

    A namespace is a container for CloudWatch metrics. Metrics in different namespaces are isolated from each other so that metrics from different applications are not mistakenly aggregated into the same statistics.

    There is no default namespace. You must specify a namespace for each data point you publish to CloudWatch. You can specify a namespace name when you create a metric.

224. Given Java app on Elastic Beanstalk. How to update it to newest version
  1. recommended way for update to latest Java version (21 or something like this) is `Update your Environment’s Platform Version`
  2. Perform a Blue/Green Deployment

225. How many datasets can be assosiated with one identity in context of AWS Cognito Sync? What is size limit for each dataset?
  - You can associate up to 20 datasets with an identity.
  - Each dataset limit is 1 MB.

226. What's General Purpose SSD (gp2) EBS volume min IOPS?
  Up untill size 33.3 GB IOPS are 100

227. What type of actions allowed inside DynamoDB's TransactWriteItems ?
  - Put
  - Update
  - Delete
  - ConditionCheck

228. Name Route 53 records types
  A CNAME record maps DNS queries for the name of the current record, such as acme.example.com, to another domain (example.com or example.net) or subdomain (acme.example.com or zenith.example.org).

  A record - Used to point a domain or subdomain to an IP address. 'A record' cannot be used to map one domain name to another.

  PTR record - A Pointer (PTR) record resolves an IP address to a fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) as an opposite to what A record does. PTR records are also called Reverse DNS records. 'PTR record' cannot be used to map one domain name to another

  Alias Record - Alias records let you route traffic to selected AWS resources, such as CloudFront distributions and Amazon S3 buckets. It is free of charge

229. what is CloudWatch Events, what does it do?
  Amazon CloudWatch Events delivers a near real-time stream of system events that describe CHANGES in Amazon Web Services (AWS) resources. These help to trigger notifications based on changes happening in AWS services. You cannot use CloudWatch Events to debug and trace data across accounts.

230. What is IAM Access Analyzer?
  AWS IAM Access Analyzer helps you identify the resources in your organization and accounts, such as Amazon S3 buckets or IAM roles, that are shared with an external entity.
  You can set the scope for the analyzer to an organization or an AWS account. This is your zone of trust. The analyzer scans all of the supported resources within your zone of trust. When Access Analyzer finds a policy that allows access to a resource from outside of your zone of trust, it generates an active finding.

231. What is  Access Advisor?
  Access Advisor feature on IAM console - To help identify the unused roles, IAM reports the last-used timestamp that represents when a role was last used to make an AWS request. Your security team can use this information to identify, analyze, and then confidently remove unused roles.

232. Why should I use S3 Analytics ?
  By using Amazon S3 analytics Storage Class Analysis you can analyze storage access patterns, implement better lifecycle policies

233. Name ALB features
  - load balancing
  - health check
  - separation of public traffic from private traffic
  - good for highly available systems

234. Does Load Balancer communicates with the underlying EC2 instances using their private or public IPs?
  PRIVATE IPs only

235. Can load balancer target EC2 instances accross AZ or Region?
  A Load Balancer can target EC2 instances only within ONE an AWS Region

236. Given Condition section in CloudFormation template. Can I use conditions withing Parameters, Resourses, properties of Resourses, Outputs sections?
  You can use Condition withing Resourses with their properties. You cannot use it anywhere else

237. Is that correct that by default, network ACLs allow all inbound and outbound traffic?
  Yes

238. What are CloudFormation Outputs name constrains?
  It should be unique within a single Region

239. Name AWS Cloud Development Kit (CDK) supported languages.
 - JavaScript/TypeScript
 - Python
 - C#
 - Java

240. Name Elastic Beanstalk Deployment options.
  - All at once
  - Rolling
  - Rolling with additional batch
  - Immutable (ensures your new application version is always deployed to new instances + safe rollback + new environment)
  - Traffic splitting (A canary testing deployment method)

241. What is memmory equivalent of one vCPU for Lambda?
  1769 MB

242. What are Codebuild min/max/default timeout?
  5min/8hours/8hours

243. Name all supported AWS::Serverless:: SAM resourses
  - AWS::Serverless::Api ( API Gateway REST API)
  - AWS::Serverless::Application
  - AWS::Serverless::Function
  - AWS::Serverless::HttpApi ( API Gateway HTTP API)
  - AWS::Serverless::LayerVersion
  - AWS::Serverless::SimpleTable (DynamoDB table)
  - AWS::Serverless::StateMachine

244. Can I use IAM policy principal in IAM identity-based policy?
  No, you can use it only in the trust policies for IAM roles and in resource-based policies

245. how to lock access to certain part of s3 via IAM constructs?
  use policy variables, allow access for conditions with ${aws:username}

246. Explain cross-zone load balancing in ALB
  When cross-zone load balancing is enabled, each load balancer node distributes traffic across the registered targets in all enabled Availability Zones.

  example: given 2 ec2 instance in AZ1 and 8 in AZ2
  if cross-zone enabled each instance in az1 would get 10% of a traffic
  if cross-zone disabled each instance in az1 would get 25% of a traffic

247. Is cross-zone load balancing in ALB enabled by default?
  Yes, cross-zone load balancing is always enabled with ALB

248. What is depth of 'Mapping' in CF template? How to get value out of it?
  it's 2 level structure
  syntax of getting value?
    - !FindInMap [ MapName, TopLevelKey, SecondLevelKey ]
    - Fn::FindInMap: [ MapName, TopLevelKey, SecondLevelKey ]

249. Explain app creation steps while working with cdk
  - cdk init (create app from the stack provided by AWS CDK)
  - Add code to the app to create resources within stacks
  - Build the app (if required)
  - cdk synthesize (cdk synth) - AWS CloudFormation template for each stack
  - deploy the app

250. What is Dedicated Instances model for EC2
  instances that run in VPC on hardware that's dedicated to a single customer. No hardware control present. Other EC2 instances may be mounted on the same machine if it's the same AWS account

251. Name AWS pseudo variables available in CloudFormation template.

  AWS::AccountId returns the AWS account ID of the account in which the stack is being created.

  AWS::NoValue - This removes the corresponding resource property when specified as a return value in the Fn::If intrinsic function. Often used with conjuction of Fn::If

  AWS::Region - Returns a string representing the AWS Region in which the encompassing resource is being created, such as us-west-2.

  AWS::StackName - Returns the name of the stack as specified with the aws cloudformation create-stack command, such as "teststack".

252. How to allow non-root user to see AWS Billing and Cost Management console
  - activate IAM user access to Billing and Cost Management console. It can be done in Account settings of the AWS Management Console
  - attach relevant IAM Policy to user

253. Can I allow IAM users to create CloudFront key pairs?
  No, only root user can do it

254. What can be used as signer for CloudFront signed URLs?
  A signer is either a trusted key group that you create in CloudFront, or an AWS account that contains a CloudFront key pair. AWS recommends that you use trusted key groups with signed URLs and signed cookies instead of using CloudFront key pairs.

255. How long does it take for AWS Forecast-based AWS Budgets alerts to collect data for forecasts?
  approximately 5 weeks

256. What SQS API should be called to delete queue?
  DeleteQueue

257. How to distinguish customer managed key and aws managed keys with KMS API?
  use DescribeKey API, for customer managed keys, the value of the KeyManager field of the DescribeKey response is CUSTOMER, for AWS managed - AWS.

258. What type of credentials does CodeCommit supports?
  - SSH Keys
  - Git credentials
  - AWS Access Keys

259. For how long does DynamoDB table provide data point in time recovery?
  Up to 35 days

260. What is the min/max/default message visibility timeout in SQS?
  0sec/12hours/30sec

261. Are sqs queue tags are case sensetive?
  No, they are case insensitive

262. What permissions do you need to add tag to sqs queue on creation?
  sqs:CreateQueue and sqs:TagQueue

263. Is that truth that EC2 user data runs only during the boot cycle and always executed with root permissions?
  Yes

264. What does Elastic Beanstalk do with instances during the deployment of a new application version in a batch?
  Elastic Beanstalk detaches all instances in the batch from the load balancer, deploys the new application version, and then reattaches the instances.

265. What feature can be enabled in Elastic Beanstalk to manage existing connections during deployment?
  Connection draining

266. What does Elastic Beanstalk do with instances from a failed deployment?
  replaces them with instances running the application version from the most recent successful deployment.

267. What is PutRecords limit for kinesis shard in terms of records and payload size?
  Up to 500 records in single PutRecords operation, up to 1 MB for each record, up to 5MB for whole operation

268.What is the maximum write capacity for each kinesis shard in terms of records per second and in terms of data per second?
  1,000 records per second, 1 MB per second

269. Can Auto Scaling groups span across multiple AWS Regions/AZs?
  Regions - no
  AZs - yes

270. What happens when an Availability Zone becomes unhealthy in an Auto Scaling group?
  Auto Scaling launches new instances in an unaffected AZ. When AZ returns to a healthy state Auto Scaling automatically redistributes the application instances evenly across all designated Availability Zones

271. In a VPC, where are EC2 instances for Auto Scaling groups launched?
  EC2 instances are launched in subnets within the VPC.

272. Can customers select the subnets for their EC2 instances in an Auto Scaling group?
  Yes

273. Can Lambda Aliase point to another lambda aliase?
  No, only to specific version of lambda except $LATEST

274. Is there specific service providing access logs to ALB, like VPC flow logs? What data does it provide?
  Yes, it's called ALB access logs, it provides ip, latency, request path and server response

275. How does ALB request tracing works?
  It adds extra header for each  request it receives

276. What does Amazon Inspector do?
  assesses applications for vulnerabilities, and deviations from best practices, generates relevant reports, provides Automated Security Assessments.

276. What does AWS Security Hub do?
  AWS Security Hub aggregates and prioritizes security alerts from multiple AWS services and third-party solutions, providing a unified view of security and compliance status across AWS environments.

277. What is min IOPS for SSD io1/io2/io2 Block Express?
  100 IOPS

278. What is max IOPS for SSD io1/io2?
  io1/io2 - 64 000 IOPS
  io2 Block Express - 256 000 IOPS

279. What is ratio of provisioned IOPS to requested volume size for ssd io1/io2/io2 Express block volumes?
  io1/io2 - 50 : 1, each GB of volume adds 50 IOPS, there are min/max IOPS limits
  io2 Express block - 500 : 1

280. What is max operation size for SSD (io1/io2)?
  256KB

281. What is max throughtput for SSD io1/io2/io2 Express block?
  io1/io2 without nitro - 500mb/s
  io1/io2 with nitro - 1000 mb/s
  io2 Express block - 4000 mb/s

282. What is Volume Size for SSD io1/io2/io2 Express block, and general purpose gp2/gp3
  4 GB – 64 TB

283. Given non-nitro SSD io1 and non-nitro SSD io2. What the difference?
  durability, 99.999 for io2 and 99.8% - 99.9 for io1

284. Explain difference in EBS prices between two HDD option st1 and sc1
  - st1 - low cost
  - sc1 - lowest cost

285. What is Volume Size for EBS HDD st1 and sc1?
  125 GB – 16 TB

286. What is max IOPS for EBS HDD st1/sc1?
  - st1 500 IOPS
  - sc1 250 IOPS

287. What is max throughtput for EBS HDD st1/sc1?
  - st1 500 mb/s
  - sc1 250 mb/s

288. What are the three specifications required to create VPC flow log?
  - The resource for which to create the flow log.
  - The type of traffic to capture (options: accepted traffic, rejected traffic, or all traffic).
  - The destinations to which the flow log data will be published.

289. you are tasked to update API Gateway. Do you need to redeploy api for changes to take effect?
  yes

290. What does AWS CodeBuild report through Amazon CloudWatch, and how can you export this data?
  AWS CodeBuild reports both metrics (total builds, failed builds, successful builds, build duration) and logs through Amazon CloudWatch. You can export log data from CloudWatch log groups to an Amazon S3 bucket

291. What are the two solutions for handling the "Maximum sending rate exceeded" error in Amazon SES?
  - For intermittent errors - Exponential Backoff
  - For consistent errors - request a quota increase

292. Can EC2 metadata be used to retrieve IAM policies?
  no

293. What are the possible responses when executing an EC2 CLI command with the --dry-run option, depending on your access permissions?
  If you have the required permissions, the response is `DryRunOperation`.
  If you do not have the permissions, the response is `UnauthorizedOperation`.

294. Why should you use bundled dependencies during the build stage in AWS CodeBuild?
  Bundling dependencies during the build stage in AWS CodeBuild speeds up deployment by avoiding repeated fetching of dependencies. Dependencies are resolved during the build stage, not during deployment.

295. In AWS CodeBuild, can bundled dependencies be stored in Amazon S3?
  Yes, bundled dependencies, if included as part of the build artifacts, can be configured to be stored in Amazon S3.

296. What resolution options are available for custom metrics in Amazon CloudWatch?
  standard and high-resolution

297. What is the difference between Classic Load Balancer and Application Load Balancer regarding port mapping in Amazon ECS?
  Classic Load Balancer requires static port mapping and does not support running multiple copies of a task on the same instance with different ports.
  Application Load Balancer supports dynamic port mapping, allowing multiple tasks from the same service to run on a single container instance with different ports.

298. What strategies can be used to address the ProvisionedThroughputExceeded exception in Amazon Kinesis Data Streams, and does enhanced fan-out help in this situation?

  1) Increase the number of shards
  2) Use exponential backoff

  Enhanced fan-out does not help with this exception as it is designed to improve data retrieval for consumers and does not increase the stream's write capacity.

299. What is a KMS grant in AWS, and what are some key permissions and conditions that can be specified in a KMS grant?
  In AWS KMS, a grant is a mechanism that allows you to delegate the use of KMS keys to other AWS principals

  Key permissions that can be managed through grants include:
    kms:CreateGrant - Allows the grantee to create new grants.
    kms:ListGrants - Allows the grantee to list the grants.
    kms:RevokeGrant - Allows the grantee to revoke grants.

  Conditions such as `kms:ViaService` can be used to restrict key usage to requests from specific AWS services

  policy example:
    "Resource": "*",
    "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "kms:ViaService": "ec2.us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
        }
    }

300. What are CI and CD in DevOps, and how are they represented in AWS?
  CI - Developers merge code changes frequently into a central repository, followed by automated builds and tests. Represented by AWS CodeBuild
  CD - Code changes are automatically built, tested, and prepared for release. Represented by AWS CodeDeploy

301. What is SQS min/max/defaut message delay?
  0sec/15min/0sec

302.  How is EC2 instance usage billed that exceeds 3600 seconds per clock-hour under a Reserved Instance?
  they billed on demand

303. What is the key difference between Convertible and Standard EC2 Reserved Instances regarding instance family modification?
  instance family can be modified only in Convertible EC2 Reserved Instance

304. What is the maximum payload size for KMS encryption?
  The maximum payload size for KMS encryption is 4 KB.

305. What is the maximum size for AWS Lambda environment variables? Is there a limit of quantity of env variables
  The maximum size for AWS Lambda environment variables is 4 KB, there is no limit of how many variables lambda has

306. What is the maximum number of in-flight messages in SQS?
  approximately 120,000

307. What is max number of route table a VPC subnet can be assosiated with?
  1

308. what is the difference between EC2 Regional Reserved Instances	and Zonal Reserved Instances?
  - only zonal reserved instances can reserve capacity
  - only regional reserved insatnces provides instance size flexibility and queuing a purchase

309. How can you use AWS Data Pipeline for backing up DynamoDB data?
  Use AWS Data Pipeline to export your DynamoDB table to an S3 bucket for a one-time backup using minimal AWS resources.

310. What is the best practice for automated, continuous backups of DynamoDB data?
  Use AWS Glue to copy your DynamoDB table to Amazon S3. This method supports automated, continuous backups and integration with services like Amazon Athena.

311. What built-in backup methods does DynamoDB offer, and can you access the S3 buckets used for these backups?
  DynamoDB offers On-demand and Point-in-time recovery backup methods that write to Amazon S3. However, you will not have access to the S3 buckets used for these backups.

312. How to ensure consistency of DynamoDB read?
  Use `ConsistentRead` equal to true while doing `GetItem` operation for any item

313. What is DynamoDB max object size
  400kb

314. Is that correct that 'ValidateService' is last hook is CodeDeploy?
  Yes

315. What can be a Kinesis Firehose destination target
  - Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) (If data transformation is enabled, you can optionally back up source data to another Amazon S3 bucket.)
  - Amazon Redshift
  - Amazon ElasticSearch Service (Amazon ES)
  - http endpoint
  - Splunk
  - Datadog
  - New Relic
  - MongoDB Cloud

316. What is a required parameter for a Task state in AWS Step Functions?
  The Resource field is a required parameter for a Task state in AWS Step Functions.

317. How many active CloudFront key pairs allowed per account
  up to 2

318. How does CloudFront use the public-private key pair in the signer for signed URLs or cookies?
  In CloudFront, the signer uses its private key to sign a portion of the URL or cookies. CloudFront then uses the public key to verify the signature and ensure the URL or cookie hasn't been tampered with and is still valid.

319. What is the advantage of using CloudFront key groups for managing public keys?
  Higher number of public keys can be assosiated with a distribution. By default, up to 4 key groups can be associated with a single distribution, and each key group can contain up to 5 public keys.

320. Under what condition can an Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group scale above its maximum capacity?
  An Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group can scale above its maximum capacity only when instance weights are used. In this scenario, it can scale out above the maximum size limit, but only by up to the maximum instance weight.

321. What are the basic parameter types available in AWS CloudFormation?
  - String
  - Number
  - List<Number>.
  - CommaDelimitedList

322. What are EC2-related parameter types in AWS CloudFormation?
  - AWS::EC2::KeyPair::KeyName
  - AWS::EC2::SecurityGroup::Id /  List<AWS::EC2::SecurityGroup::Id>
  - AWS::EC2::Subnet::Id /  List<AWS::EC2::Subnet::Id>
  - AWS::EC2::VPC::Id / List<AWS::EC2::VPC::Id>

323. Does AWS Lambda support functions that use multi-architecture container images?
  No

324. What type of container images does AWS Lambda support?
  Linux-based container images only

325. How can you test Lambda container images locally?
  With Lambda Runtime Interface Emulator.

326. What is the maximum size for a container image deployed as an AWS Lambda function?
  10GB

327. What does the UpdateItem action do in DynamoDB?
  put/add/delete attributes of existing item or add a new item if it does not already exist

328. Which AWS database services support transactions out of following: AWS RDS, DynamoDB, RedShift?
  support - AWS RDS, DynamoDB
  do not support - RedShift

329. Can AWS Secret Manager be used directly with Elastic Beanstalk?
  No

330. What is the proper way to scale AWS Lambda functions for consistent performance?
  Use Auto Scaling groups and provisioned concurrency

331. Are AWS Elastic Block Store (EBS) volumes region-specific or Availability Zone-specific?
  it is AZ specific, if it's deployed to eu-west-1a it cannot be used in eu-west-1b

332. How can you reuse SSH key pairs for EC2 instances across different AWS regions?
  - Generate a public SSH key (.pub) file from the private SSH key (.pem) file.
  - Set the AWS Region you wish to import to.
  - Import the public SSH key into the new Region.

333. What are Atomic Counters in the context of DynamoDB?
  It's a numeric attribute that is incremented unconditionally, without interfering with other write requests, often used to track metrics like website visitors

334. What is default S3 Object Ownership is an Amazon S3?
  The one who uploaded object is an owner. Can be changed by Object Ownership -> Bucket owner preferred Option

335. When can Dead Letter Queues (DLQ) be used with AWS Lambda functions?
  Dead Letter Queues (DLQ) can be used with AWS Lambda functions only during asynchronous invocations.

336. In context of ElastiCache, which option supports snapshots facility, replication, and transactions, Memcached or Redis?
  Redis

337. How to promote API Gateway stage from test to prod?
  - Update stage variable value from the stage name of test to that of prod
  - delete prod and redeploy test stage into prod (this option has downtime)

338. What are the default steady-state and burst rate limits for Amazon API Gateway at the account level?
  10,000 requests per second (rps) and the burst rate to 5,000 requests across all APIs within an AWS account

339. What is the range for the retention period of automatic backups in Amazon RDS? How can it be extended?
  For automatic backups in Amazon RDS it's from 0 to 35 days. For longer retention, you can create a cron event in AWS CloudWatch that triggers an AWS Lambda function to take a database snapshot.

340. What are the possible methods for enabling cross-account access to S3 bucket objects?
  - Resource-based policies and AWS IAM policies for programmatic-only access.
  - Access Control Lists (ACLs) and IAM policies for programmatic-only access.
  - Cross-account IAM roles for both programmatic and console access.

341. What are the limitations of using IAM roles and resource-based policies for cross-account access in S3?
  They cannot delegate access across accounts within different AWS partitions.
  For example, you cannot use a resource-based policy in an AWS account in the China (Beijing) partition to allow access for users in a standard AWS account in the US West (N. California) partition.

342. Which AWS services use AWS CloudFormation, and how is it integrated?
  - Elastic Beanstalk uses AWS CloudFormation to launch resources and propagate configuration changes.
  - AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM) uses CloudFormation under the hood.
  - AWS Auto Scaling and AWS CodeBuild may optionally use CloudFormation, unlike the mandatory integration seen in Elastic Beanstalk and SAM.

343. What is the root cause of instances being launched in the wrong ECS cluster when using different cluster names in separate AWS CloudFormation deployments?
  The root cause is that the cluster name parameter was not updated in the /etc/ecs/ecs.config file during the bootstrap process of the EC2 instances in the ECS cluster

344. What is AWS Glue and what are its primary functions?
  It's and extract, transform, and load (ETL) service that simplifies the process of preparing and loading data for analytics. It automatically discovers data stored on AWS, generates metadata, and stores it in the AWS Glue Data Catalog

345. What are some key features of AWS Glue?
  - automatic schema discovery
  - integration with various data sources including S3, RDS, Redshift, DynamoDB, and other databases through JDBC.

346. Which container management options are fully serverless in AWS, and which is considered the simplest?
  ECS on Fargate and EKS on Fargate are serverless. ECS is simplest

347.  What is the purpose of using filter expressions in AWS X-Ray, and what limitations do they help to reduce cost by reducing the volume of data sent to the X-Ray?
  Filter expressions in AWS X-Ray are used to narrow down trace results within the console to specific traces of interest during a selected time period.
  However, they do not reduce the volume of data sent to the X-Ray console nor optimize associated costs

348. How can you configure the CodeDeploy agent to manage the number of application revisions archived and log file retention? How long log files for revisions can be stored?
  Use the :max_revisions: option in the CodeDeploy agent configuration file to specify the number of application revisions to archive.
  Log files for these revisions are archived for up to 7 days.

349. What types of replication are available in Amazon S3 and at what levels can they be configured?
  Amazon S3 offers Same-Region Replication (SRR) and Cross-Region Replication (CRR).
  It can be configured at the bucket level, shared prefix level, or object level using S3 object tags.

350. Are S3 lifecycle actions replicated with S3 replication?
  No

351. Can object tags / metadata be replicated across AWS Regions using S3 replication?
  Yes

352. If replication is enabled on s3 bucket would it replicate existion object or only new objects?
  Only new objects can be replicated. No retrospective replication is possible

353. How can you improve scalability and resilience in Amazon RDS?
  Use cross-Region Read Replicas and enable automated backups in a multi-AZ deployment (it creates backups in a single AWS Region)

354. Can I use RDS automatic/manual backup across multiple AWS Region?
  - automatic - no, it's limited to a single AWS Region
  - manual - yes

355. What IAM permission is essential for writing S3 data encrypted with SSE-KMS, and why is it so?
  `kms:GenerateDataKey`, "kms:Encrypt", "kms:Decrypt", because it uses envelop encryption under the hood

356. Are resource-based policies permitted for Parameter Store?
  No, only Parameter policies allowed (under advanced tier)

357. Which DB Engines are permitted to use IAM database authentication?
  - Amazon Aurora (MySQL/PostgreSQL)
  - MySQL
  - PostgreSQL
  - MariaDB

358. How does Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling ensure even distribution of instances across Availability Zones?
  Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling maintains equivalent numbers of instances in each enabled Availability Zone by launching new instances in the Availability Zone with the fewest instances.

359. Is immutable deployments available for Elastic Beanstalk and EC2?
  - AWS Elastic Beanstalk - yes
  - EC2 - directly, no

360. What configuration should be set for CodeBuild parallel build?
  CodeBuild scales automatically, no additional config is required

361. What type of load balancer can spread trafic unevenly depending on instance type?
  A Classic Load Balancer might route more traffic to higher-capacity instance types

362. What is max message size with SQS Extended Client and without it?
  2GB, 256kb

363. What are limitations of step function Express Workflows?
  Unlike standart workflow it does not support activities, job-run (.sync), and Callback patterns.

364. What is the AWS CLI command to enable monitoring for EC2 instances, and what is the required parameter?
  The command is `monitor-instances`, and the required parameter is `--instance-ids`.

365. How can you collect and report EC2 RAM statistics as custom metrics to CloudWatch, and what additional consideration is needed for metrics across multiple regions?
  You can use the Amazon CloudWatch Monitoring Scripts for EC2 instances to push RAM statistics as custom metrics via a cron job set to report every N minutes. However, since CloudWatch metrics are region-specific, additional solutions like AWS Lambda or a centralized monitoring system are required to aggregate or view metrics across multiple regions.

366. What is the correct sequence of lifecycle event hooks in AWS CodeDeploy?
  - ApplicationStop
  - DownloadBundle
  - BeforeInstall
  - Install
  - AfterInstall
  - ApplicationStart
  - ValidateService

367. "number of requests per minute". Is it a custom Cloudwatch metric or default one?
  custom

368. How do you associate a KMS key with a CloudWatch log group using the AWS CLI?
  via CLI command `associate-kms-key` with `--log-group-name` and `--kms-key-id`.

369. What advanced data structures does Redis OSS support, and can you give an example of a use case?
  Redis OSS supports lists, sets, sorted sets, hashes, bit arrays, and hyperloglogs.
  For example, sorted sets can be used to implement a game leaderboard, keeping a list of players sorted by their rank.

370. Is that true that CodeDeploy deployments have a snapshots stored on S3?
  No, that's why rollback would create a new deployment ID

371. If you cache dependencies for CodeBuild, where is it stored?
  in S3

372. What are the routing options available for AWS Application Load Balancers (ALB)?
  Path
  Host
  Query String
  Headers
  Request Method

373. How to preserve original IP from request when using Elastic LoadBalancer without X-For?
  Use Network load balancer (fourth layer of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model)

374. Which S3 encryption type require HTTPS and throws error if HTTPS is not used?
  SSE-C

375. What is the most optimal method for sending log data from EC2 instances to a Kinesis Data Stream, and why?
  Use Amazon Kinesis Agent.
  That would monitore log file changes, handles file rotations and retries, can preprocess the data.
  The KPL or SDK option since they do not monitor file changes and require custom code to handle new data

376. What is the maximum throughput per shard in Amazon Kinesis Data Streams?
  1 MB per second or 1,000 records per second for writes and 2 MB/sec output capacity.

377. What are key operational characteristics of Redis in cluster mode?
  - all nodes must be in the same region.
  - Multi-AZ is recommended for high availability
  - manual promotion of replicas is not supported
  - Asynchronous replication to read replicas occurs in both cluster mode enabled and disabled configurations.

378. What port ranges are used by Elastic Load Balancing for originating requests, and what are the ephemeral port ranges for different operating systems?
  ELB(as well as lambda and NAT Gateway) uses 1024-65535 for originating requests
  Linux - 32768-61000
  Windows Server 2003 - 1025-5000
  Windows Server 2008 - 49152-65535.

379. Can Amazon S3 event notifications be sent directly to a FIFO SQS queue?
  No, it can be sent directly only to Standard queue

380. How can you trigger an AWS Lambda function in response to changes in an AWS service that does not have direct Lambda integration?
  Amazon CloudWatch Events/EventBridge

381. What are the target types supported by an AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB)?
  Instance, IP and Lambda

382. Can I specify any private IP address for integration with ALB?
  if target is IP - yes
  if target is EC2 instance - no, only PRIMARY private IP in the primary network interface can be used

383. Can S3 object metadata be encrypted with KMS?
  No only object itself can be encrypted

384. Can You export cloudwatch logs to encrypted S3 with SSE-S3 or SSE-KMS?
  Both options are supported

385. What is "Warm Standby" Disaster Recovery scenario?
 - scenario in which a scaled-down version of a fully functional environment is always running in the cloud.

386.  What is "Pilot Light" Disaster Recovery scenario?
 - scenario where you simply replicate part of your IT structure for a limited set of core services so that the AWS cloud environment seamlessly takes over in the event of a disaster. Such replica can be copied and be stoped. In case of recovery it should be started

387. What is the range and default duration for a token obtained from AWS STS using the `GetSessionToken` action?
  from 15 minutes to 36 hours, default 60 minutes

388. How are configurations defined in AWS Elastic Beanstalk for Web Server environments and Worker environments?
  Web Server - .ebextensions file
  Worker environments - .ebextensions + cron.yaml file to schedule periodic tasks

389. Which AWS X-Ray daemon environment variable should be used for EC2 integrations?
  AWS_XRAY_DAEMON_ADDRESS - Set the host and port of the X-Ray daemon listener

  AWS_XRAY_TRACING_NAME - This sets a service name that the SDK uses for segments.

  AWS_XRAY_CONTEXT_MISSING - This should be set to LOG_ERROR to avoid throwing exceptions when your instrumented code attempts to record data when no segment is open.

  AWS_XRAY_DEBUG_MODE - This should be set to TRUE to configure the SDK to output logs to the console, instead of configuring a logger.

390. Describe reasons of ALB HTTP 500: Internal server error.
  1) WAF configured and there is error executing ACL rules
  2) Load baalncer unable to communicate with the IdP token/user endpoint
  3) Idp user received and it's greater than 11 Kb in size

391. Describe reasons of ALB HTTP 501: Not implemented.
  The load balancer received a Transfer-Encoding header with an unsupported value.

392. Describe reasons of ALB HTTP 503: Service unavailable.
  The target groups for the load balancer have no registered targets

393. Describe reasons of ALB HTTP 504: Gateway timeout.
  ACL or SecurityGroup did not allow traffic from the targets to the load balancer

394. Describe reasons of ALB HTTP 561: Unauthorized.
  configured a listener rule to authenticate users, but the IdP returned an error code

395. How to access EC2 metadata?
  http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data

396. What are the security requirements for installing the AWS CloudWatch Agent on an on-premises server?
  Use key and a secret key from an IAM user with permissions to interact with CloudWatch

397. What is '/opt' directory used for in AWS Lambda?
  For access to layers

398. What are the considerations for using Dead Letter Queues (DLQs) with FIFO queues?
  DLQ is not recommended to be used with FIFO queues. DLQ can disrupt the strict sequence of messages once they are moved to the DLQ

399. What are the purposes of the Pre Authentication and Post Authentication triggers in Amazon Cognito User Pools?
  - Pre Authentication (custom validation to accept or deny the sign-in request)
  - Post Authentication (Event logging for custom analytics, notifications)

400. Is it possible to use Provisioned Concurrency with the $LATEST version of Lambda?
  No, Provisioned Concurrency should be used with published versions and aliases of a function, not $LATEST

401. In Elastic Beanstalk which options has build in Nginx proxy server Multicontainer Docker platform or Single Container Docker?
  Single Container Docker. Multicontainer Docker platform uses ECS

402. Where does Codebuild pull images from? Are any additional permissions are required?
  ECR.  A user who uses the AWS CodeBuild console must have a minimum set of permissions that allows the user to describe other AWS resources for the AWS account.

403. How can you deal with AWS KMS throttling exceptions?
  - Reduce the rate of requests and consider using backoff and retry logic.
  - Use the data key caching feature with the AWS Encryption SDK.

404. Does S3ReadPolicy provide acess to object's metadata?
  Yes

405: What are Annotations in AWS X-Ray traces?
  Annotations are simple key-value pairs that are indexed for use with filter expressions, allowing you to record data for grouping traces in the console or using the GetTraceSummaries API.

406. What is Metadata in AWS X-Ray traces?
  Metadata are key-value pairs with values of any type, including objects and lists, but are not indexed. They are used to store additional data in the trace that is not needed for searching traces.

407. What are Segments in AWS X-Ray traces?
  Segments are data sent by computing resources about their work, providing the resource's name, details about the request, and information about the work performed.

408. How does Sampling work in AWS X-Ray?
  The X-Ray SDK uses a sampling algorithm to efficiently trace and provide a representative sample of requests. By default, it records the first request each second and five percent of any additional requests.

409. How can you achieve X-Ray cross-region log aggregation into a central account?
  - Optimal solution: Create a role in the central account and allow roles in each sub-account to assume this role, then configure the X-Ray daemon to use an IAM instance role.
  - Less optimal solution: Create a user in the central account, generate access and secret keys, and configure the X-Ray daemon to use these keys.

410. How can you enable artifact encryption in AWS CodeBuild using the buildspec.yml file?
  Specify the KMS key ID in the CODEBUILD_KMS_KEY_ID environment variable in the buildspec.yml file.

411. How can you set up an HTTPS endpoint in an AWS Elastic Beanstalk environment?
  - Create a configuration file in the .ebextensions folder to configure the Load Balancer with an HTTPS listener.
  - For an Application Load Balancer, use a file like .ebextensions/securelistener-alb.config and set the Protocol to HTTPS
  - provide SSLCertificateArns in the option settings

412. How do you run the X-Ray daemon for Docker containers deployed using AWS Fargate?
  - Deploy the X-Ray daemon as a sidecar container.
  - Create a Docker image running the X-Ray daemon, upload it to a repository, and deploy it to your ECS cluster using bridge networking.
  - Set the AWS_XRAY_DAEMON_ADDRESS environment variable to specify the container-port.
  - Assign the correct IAM task role to the X-Ray container to ensure appropriate permissions.

413. What are the key CLI options for a DynamoDB scan operation?
  --filter-expression: Filters which items are returned from the scan results.

  --projection-expression: Specifies the attributes to return.

  --page-size: Defines the number of items the AWS CLI requests from each service call, facilitating more API calls with fewer items each.

  --max-items: Limits the number of items included in the AWS CLI output per time.

414. What are the rules for auto-scaling an RDS MySQL instance?
  - Auto-scaling triggers when free available space is less than 10% of the allocated storage.
  - The low-storage condition must last at least five minutes.
  - At least six hours must have passed since the last storage modification.
  - The maximum storage threshold for auto-scaling cannot exceed the maximum allocated storage set for the DB instance.

415. What tool can be used to retrieve a subset of data (CSV, JSON, or Apache Parquet) from S3 via query?
  S3 Select.

416. What version ID is assigned to an object in S3 after enabling versioning if the object was already in the bucket?
  'null'

417. Does overwriting an S3 file increase its versions if versioning is enabled?
  Yes, overwriting an S3 file creates a new version each time if versioning is enabled.

418. If S3 versioning is enabled, is deleting or rewriting a file a recoverable operation?
  Yes, with versioning enabled, you can recover previous versions of a file after it has been deleted or overwritten.

419. Can S3 versioning  be enabled for a specific folder
  No, only for specific bucket

420. What are the types of sensitive data findings identified by Amazon Macie for S3Object?
  SensitiveData:S3Object/Credentials: Contains sensitive credentials data like AWS secret access keys or private keys.

  SensitiveData:S3Object/CustomIdentifier: Contains text matching the detection criteria of custom data identifiers.

  SensitiveData:S3Object/Financial: Contains sensitive financial information such as bank account or credit card numbers.

  SensitiveData:S3Object/Multiple: Contains more than one category of sensitive data (credentials, financial information, personal information, or matches to custom identifiers).

  SensitiveData:S3Object/Personal: Contains sensitive personal information (PII or PHI) like passport numbers, driver's license IDs, health insurance, or medical IDs.

421. What are the types of policy-related sensitive data findings identified by Amazon Macie for IAM Users?

  Policy:IAMUser/S3BlockPublicAccessDisabled: All bucket-level block public access settings were disabled.

  Policy:IAMUser/S3BucketEncryptionDisabled: Default encryption settings for the bucket were reset to default S3 encryption behavior.

  Policy:IAMUser/S3BucketPublic: Access was changed to allow anonymous users or all authenticated IAM identities.

  Policy:IAMUser/S3BucketReplicatedExternally: Replication was enabled to replicate objects to a bucket in an external AWS account.

  Policy:IAMUser/S3BucketSharedExternally: The bucket was shared with an AWS account external to your organization.

  Policy:IAMUser/S3BucketSharedWithCloudFront: The bucket policy was changed to allow sharing with an Amazon CloudFront origin access identity or control.

422. How can you update a DNS service running on an EC2 instance without downtime?

  Assign an Elastic IP to the EC2 instance. This ensures that the DNS service maintains a fixed public IP address, allowing updates or changes to the instance without affecting the DNS service's IP address.

423. What could cause a 500 error when integrating API Gateway with a Lambda function?
  A 500 error can occur if the Lambda function's IAM policy does not grant invoke permission to the API Gateway. Ensure the Lambda function's policy includes an "Allow" action for the principal "apigateway.amazonaws.com" with the action "lambda:InvokeFunction".

424. What CLI options should be used to implement S3 List with pagination?
  --starting-token
  --max-items

425. How can you access S3 and DynamoDB located in a private subnet from outside the VPC?
  Create gateway endpoints for S3 and DynamoDB and add them as target entries in the route table of your custom VPC.
  This setup enables private connections to these services without needing an internet gateway or NAT.

426. What are VPC endpoints and their benefits in AWS?
  VPC endpoints are virtual devices that allow communication between instances in your VPC and supported AWS services.
  They are horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available, enabling private connections without requiring an internet gateway or NAT, thus avoiding availability risks or bandwidth constraints on network traffic.

427. What are the two types of VPC endpoints in AWS, and which services do they support?
  Interface Endpoint: An elastic network interface with a private IP address from your subnet, serving as an entry point for traffic to supported services.
  It supports S3

  Gateway Endpoint: A gateway specified as a target in your route table for traffic to supported AWS services like Amazon S3 and DynamoDB.
  It supports S3 and DynamoDB

428. What is the flow of execution for deploying an application using AWS SAM and Lambda?
  - Develop the SAM template locally.
  - Upload the template to an S3 bucket.
  - Deploy your application to the cloud using the uploaded SAM template.

429. How can you remove older versions of an environment that are not used by Elastic Beanstalk to allow for new versions?
  Use a Lifecycle Policy in Elastic Beanstalk.
  This policy automatically deletes up to 100 old application versions each time a new version is created, without counting the new version towards the maximum number defined in the policy.

430. Can I define Elastic Beanstalk  lifecycle policies in .ebextensions files?
  No

431. What is Amazon Inspector?
  Amazon Inspector is an automated vulnerability management service that continually scans Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), AWS Lambda functions, and container workloads for software vulnerabilities and unintended network exposure. Inspector is not a log-collecting agent.

432. How to configure ALB to handle HTTPS trafic only?
  - Configure an SSL/TLS certificate on an Application Load Balancer via AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)
  - Create an HTTPS listener on the Application Load Balancer with SSL termination

433. What Elastic Beanstalk deployment startegy does provide you with MINIMUM application downtime?
  blue/green (you deploy the new version to a separate environment, and then swap CNAMEs (via Route 53) of the two environments to redirect traffic to the new version instantly. In case of any deployment issues, the rollback process is very quick via swapping the URLs for the two environments)

434. When versioning is enabled on an S3 bucket, are event notifications fired for every version of an object?
  Yes, with versioning enabled, event notifications are fired for every successful write, creating a new version of the object.

435. If two writes are made to a single non-versioned S3 object at the same time, is it possible that only a single S3 event notification will be sent?
  Yes, it is possible that only a single event notification will be sent for concurrent writes to a non-versioned S3 object. To ensure an event notification for every successful write, enable versioning on your S3 bucket.

436. What are the commands to pull existing Docker images from Amazon ECR?
  Log in to the ECR registry: $(aws ecr get-login --no-include-email) - This command retrieves a token valid for 12 hours and prints a Docker login command with that token.
  Pull the Docker image: docker pull 1234567890.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/demo:latest

437. How can you decrease latency and improve user performance with S3 and CloudFront by redirecting requests on cache misses to the nearest S3 bucket based on the user's country?
  - Create a Lambda@Edge function to redirect requests based on the CloudFront-Viewer-Country header.
  - Associate this Lambda function with the CloudFront distribution's origin request event.
  - Configure the CloudFront distribution to cache based on the CloudFront-Viewer-Country header.
  - Use the Lambda@Edge function to update the S3 bucket domain name to a bucket in a region closer to the viewer upon a cache miss. This reduces latency and supports data sovereignty by serving data from a region near the viewer.

438. Describe use cases for Cloudfront Functions?
  - Cache key normalization. Transform request attributes (headers, cookies, query strings, URL) to create an optimal Cache Key
  - Header manipulation. Insert/modify/delete HTTP headers in the request or response
  - URL rewrites or redirects
  - Request authentication & authorization. Create and validate user-generated tokens (e.g., JWT) to allow/deny requests

439. Describe use cases for Lambda@Edge Functions?
  It's a good fit for a following scenarios
  - Functions that takes several miliseconsd or more to complete
  - Functions that required adjastable CPU or memmory
  - Functions that depends on 3-rd party library
  - Functions that require network access to use external services for processing
  - Functions that requires file system access or access to the body of HTTP request

440. Is CloudFront Function invoked on viewer or origin events?
  only on viewer events (request or response )

441. What settings can be configured at the AWS CodeDeploy Deployment Group level?
  At the Deployment Group level in AWS CodeDeploy, you can configure rollbacks, triggers, and alarms.

442. What does a CodeDeploy Deployment Group contain?
  - A CodeDeploy Deployment Group can contain individually tagged Amazon EC2 instances, instances in Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling groups, or both.
  - In an EC2/On-Premises deployment, it specifically targets a set of individual instances for deployment.

443. Does S3 provides eventually consistent read or strong read-after-write for OBJECTS by default?
  All S3 GET, PUT, and LIST operations, as well as operations that change object tags, ACLs, or metadata, are strongly consistent.
  Amazon S3 always returns the LATEST version of the object after write.

444. Does S3 bucket configurations have an eventual consistency model or strong consistency model?
  Bucket configurations have an eventual consistency model. If you delete a bucket and immediately list all buckets, the deleted bucket might still appear in the list.

445. At what point lamnda Memmory is equivalent to 1 CPU?
  1,769 MB

446. Why might a manager not find the username that created an EBS volume in AWS CloudTrail event logs?
  AWS CloudTrail event logs for 'CreateVolume' actions are not available for EBS volumes that were created during an Amazon EC2 instance launch.

447. When are Amazon EBS CloudWatch metrics disabled?
  Amazon EBS CloudWatch metrics are only reported when the volume is attached to an instance; if the volume is detached, metrics are not reported to CloudWatch.

448. Would CloudFront routes incoming requests to the primary origin, when a previous request failed over to the secondary origin?
  Yes, CloudFront routes all incoming requests to the primary origin, even when a previous request failed over to the secondary origin

449. Is there a limitation on which HTTP methods can trigger CloudFront to fail over to the secondary origin?
  Yes, CloudFront fails over to the secondary origin only when the HTTP method of the viewer request is GET, HEAD, or OPTIONS. CloudFront does not failover when the viewer sends a different HTTP method (for example POST, PUT, and so on).

450. Does cache hit affect CloudFront routes the request to the primary/secondary origin?
  No, it would attempt to use primary origin, as long as it can, regardless of cache hit or cache miss

451. What is incorrect about the statement that all origins in a CloudFront Origin Group can be set as primary for automatic failover?
  It's incorrect. Only one origin can be set as primary in a CloudFront Origin Group.

452. What is the minimum number of origins required to form a CloudFront Origin Group?
  2

453. Does API Gateway require AWS Security Token Service (STS) to be enabled in the region to enable CloudWatch logging?
  Yes, API Gateway requires AWS STS to be enabled in the region to assume the IAM role necessary for CloudWatch logging.
  If there's an error when setting the IAM role ARN, verify that AWS STS is active in that region.

454. Is it necessary to specify the ARN of an IAM role with a trust relationship statement to enable CloudWatch Logs for API Gateway methods?
  Yes, to enable CloudWatch Logs for API Gateway methods, you must specify the ARN of an IAM role that allows API Gateway to write to CloudWatch Logs on behalf of your user, and this IAM role must include a trust relationship statement.

455. In API Gateway access logging, are only $context and $input variables supported?
  No, only $context variables are supported for specifying access details in API Gateway access logging. $input and other variables are not supported.

456. Are you charged for accessing method-level, API-level, or stage-level CloudWatch metrics in API Gateway?
  Method-level: Yes, you are charged.
  API-level: No charge.
  Stage-level: No charge.

457. Can API Gateway API log groups or streams only be deleted and recreated by redeploying the API?
  No, you can manually delete API Gateway API log groups or streams, but it is not recommended as it may cause API requests and responses not to be logged.
  If issues arise, delete the entire log group and redeploy the API, as API Gateway creates log groups or streams at the time of deployment.

458. Can the 'DeleteOnTermination' option for an EBS volume be disabled via the AWS console once the EBS volume has started?
  No, it is not possible to update the 'DeleteOnTermination' attribute of a running instance from the AWS console.

459. Can the 'DeleteOnTermination' option for an EBS volume be disabled via the CLI after the EBS volume has started?
  Yes, you can set the 'DeleteOnTermination' attribute to False using the AWS CLI.

460. What does the `DisableApiTermination` attribute do for an EC2 instance?
  The `DisableApiTermination` attribute prevents your EC2 instance from being accidentally terminated. It can be set via the AWS console or CLI.

461. How can you migrate an Elastic Beanstalk configuration from one AWS account to another?
  1) Create a saved configuration in the first account and download it to your local machine.
  2) Modify any account-specific parameters.
  3) Upload the modified configuration to an S3 bucket in the second account.
  4) Use the Elastic Beanstalk console in the second account to create an application from the 'Saved Configurations'.

462. Explain Export and Import option for migrating Elastic Beanstalk?
  There is no direct Export and Import option for migrating Elastic Beanstalk configurations.

463. In context of ECS config options (/etc/ecs/ecs.config) what does ECS_ENABLE_TASK_IAM_ROLE means?
  This ECS configuration item is used to enable IAM roles for tasks for containers with the bridge and default network modes

464. In context of ECS config options (/etc/ecs/ecs.config) what does ECS_ENGINE_AUTH_DATA means?
  This ECS configuration item refers to the authentication data within a Docker configuration file.

465. In context of ECS config options (/etc/ecs/ecs.config) what does ECS_AVAILABLE_LOGGING_DRIVERS means?
  The Amazon ECS container agent running on a container instance must register the logging drivers available on that instance with this variable. This ECS configuration item refers to the logging driver.

466. In context of ECS config options (/etc/ecs/ecs.config) what does ECS_CLUSTER means?
  This refers to the ECS cluster that the ECS agent should check into. This is passed to the container instance at launch through Amazon EC2 user data.

467. With what type of ELB Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling can works with, Application Load Balancers OR Network Load Balancers?
  Both

468. Can Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling automatically add a volume to an existing instance if the existing volume is approaching capacity?
  No, Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling does not automatically add a volume when the existing one is approaching capacity. You must manually use the EC2 API to add a volume to an existing instance.

469. What IAM permissions Amazon ECS container instances require to send log information to CloudWatch
  - "logs:CreateLogGroup"
  - "logs:CreateLogStream"
  - "logs:PutLogEvents"
  - "logs:DescribeLogStreams"

470. What is min/max/default retention period for SQS?
  1 min / 14 days / 4 days

471. What is the default output rate limit per shard for Kinesis Data Streams, and what feature allows multiple consumers to each have their own dedicated throughput?
  The default output rate limit per shard for Kinesis Data Streams is 2MB/second. It's  shared between all the applications consuming data from the stream.

  The "enhanced fan-out" feature allows each registered consumer to have their own dedicated 2MB/second pipe of read throughput per shard, which automatically scales with the number of shards in a stream.

472. How can centralized logging be implemented in Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) on AWS Fargate?
  Centralized logging in Amazon ECS on AWS Fargate can be implemented by using the `awslogs` log driver.

  Configure the containers in your tasks to send log information to CloudWatch Logs by adding the necessary `logConfiguration` parameters to your task definition.

  Note that using a unified CloudWatch approach is not applicable since ECS Fargate is serverless.

473. Can load balancer IP change over time, or it remains the same? Is logic the same for  DNS name?
  The load balancer is highly available and its public IP may change.

  The DNS name is constant

474. You need to continuously generate near-real-time analytics and leaderboard with near-real-time analytics. What is more cost effective: Kinesis Firehose + Kinesis Data Analytics OR Kinesis Data Streams + Kinesis Data Analytics?

  Kinesis Firehose + Kinesis Data Analytics option is more cost effective.

  For Kinesis Data Streams the data ingestion cost along with the per hour shards cost would be more than the corresponding cost incurred while using Firehose

475. Which is more suitable for creating an Auto Scaling Group that launches both Spot and On-Demand instances with automatic installation of the CodeDeploy agent on Amazon Linux: launch templates or launch configurations?

  Launch templates are more suitable.

  When you create a launch template use the User data field to add a configuration script that runs when the instance starts. This shell script installs the CodeDeploy agent for all AWS Regions and supported Amazon Linux and Ubuntu distributions. You can configure CodeDeploy to auto-update on boot by setting the AUTOUPDATE variable to true.

  With launch configurations you cannot create an Auto Scaling group that launches both Spot and On-Demand Instances or that specifies multiple instance types.

476. Does Amazon RDS automatically initiate a failover to the standby in the case of primary database failure in a Multi-AZ deployment?
  Yes,it does

477. How does Amazon RDS apply OS updates in a Multi-AZ deployment?
  OS updates are applied by performing maintenance on the standby, then promoting the standby to primary, and finally performing maintenance on the old primary, which becomes the new standby.

  However, for database engine modifications, both primary and secondary instances are upgraded simultaneously. In this case, the database engine for the entire Multi-AZ deployment is shut down during the upgrade.

478. In the context of RDS Multi-AZ, are updates to your DB Instance asynchronously replicated across the Availability Zone to the standby?
  No, updates are performed synchronously.

479. If lambda has reserved concurrency, can other lambda use such reserved concurrency limit?
  No

480. If lambda has reserved concurrency of 100 can if be 101 concurrent instances of this lambda?
  No, reserved concurrency  limits the maximum concurrency for the function, and applies to the function as a whole, including versions and aliases.

481. Most cost-effective file storage with immediate access for hundreds of EC2 instances. Pick one: 1) EBS 2) EFS Standard–IA 3) S3 Standard-IA
  correct option: EFS Standard–IA

  EBS cannot be accessed by hundreds of EC2 instances concurrently. It is not a file storage service
  S3 Standard-IA is not a file storage.

482. Elastic Beanstalk (on EC2) + ASG + ELB. After Load Balancer marked an EC2 instance as unhealthy, the ASG has not replaced it with a healthy instance. Suggest possible reason.
  The health check type of your instance's Auto Scaling group, must be changed from EC2 to ELB by using a configuration file.

  By default, the health check configuration of your Auto Scaling group is set as an EC2 type that performs a status check of EC2 instances. To automate the replacement of unhealthy EC2 instances, you must change the health check type of your instance's Auto Scaling group from EC2 to ELB by using a configuration file.

483. Is EBS encryption by default an Availability Zone-specific setting that cannot be disabled for individual volumes or snapshots within that AZ?
  No, EBS encryption by default is a Region-specific setting. Once enabled for a Region, it cannot be disabled for individual volumes or snapshots within that Region.

484. Is it possible to create unencrypted snapshot of an encrypted volume?
  No, You cannot remove encryption from an encrypted volume or snapshot, which means that a volume restored from an encrypted snapshot, or a COPY of an encrypted snapshot is always encrypted.

485. Can an existing unencrypted EBS volume or snapshot be directly encrypted via KMS?
  No, there is no direct method to encrypt an existing unencrypted volume or snapshot.

  To encrypt an unencrypted snapshot, you must copy it and enable encryption during the copy process. To encrypt an EBS volume, create a snapshot of the volume, encrypt the snapshot during the copying process, and then create a new encrypted volume from the encrypted snapshot.

486. Can ALB use Cognito User Poll for authentication?
  Yes

487. What settings should be enabled on CloudFront before implementing ALB Authentication?
  Forward request headers (all) — It prevents caching of responses for authenticated requests.
  Query string forwarding and caching (all) — Provides the load balancer access to query string parameters for IdP user authentication.
  Cookie forwarding (all) — Ensures that all authentication cookies are forwarded to the load balancer.

488. What encryption features are supported by Kinesis Data Streams without any code changes?
  Kinesis Data Streams supports KMS encryption for data at rest and encryption in flight using HTTPS endpoints without any code changes.

489. Do eventually consistent reads in DynamoDB have lower latency compared to strongly consistent reads?
  Yes, eventually consistent reads in DynamoDB cause lower latency than strongly consistent reads.

490. How can DynamoDB Global Tables improve performance?
  DynamoDB Global Tables can improve performance by reducing latency for globally dispersed users, as they allow you to specify AWS Regions where the table should be available, ensuring full replication across these regions.

491. What is the maximum number of messages that can be read in a batch from SQS?
  Up to 10 messages can be read in a batch from SQS.

492. Can an IAM group contain another AWS group?
  No, an IAM group can only contain users.

493. Can a user belong to multiple groups in AWS IAM?
 Yes

494. What are MFA options?
  - virtual MFA (Google Authenticator or Authy)
  - universal 2nd Factor (U2F) Security Key (YubiKey). Multiple users supported for same device
  - Hardware Key Fob MFA Device (Gemalto)
  - Hardware Key fob MFA Device for AWS GovCloud (US) (SurePassID)

495. What is an IAM Credentials Report in AWS?
  The IAM Credentials Report is an account-level security tool that lists all the users in your AWS account and the status of their various credentials. It can be accessed via IAM > Credentials Report.

496. What is IAM Access Advisor in AWS?
  IAM Access Advisor is a user-level security tool that shows the service permissions granted to a user and when those services were last accessed. It can be viewed in the Access Advisor tab for a chosen user.

497 What are the storage options for AWS EC2?
  Network-attached: EBS & EFS
  Hardware: EC2 instance store

498. Is EBS delault behavior is to be deleted on EC2 instance termination?
  If it's a root volume - Yes

499. Does EC2 public IP remains the same after restarting instance?
  No

500. Does EC2 private IP remains the same after restarting instance?
  Yes

501. What type of EC2 instance is good for Distributed web scale cache stores, applications performing real-time processing of big unstructured data?
  Memmory optimized.

502. What type of EC2 instance is good for ML or High performance web servers?
  Compute optimized.

503. What type of EC2 instance is good for Cache for in-memory databases (for example, Redis), Relational & NoSQL databases, High frequency online transaction processing (OLTP) systems?
  Storage Optimized

504. What is OLTP?
  OLTP stands for Online Transaction Processing.
  It involves managing large numbers of short online transactions that require immediate response times.
  OLTP systems are optimized for transactional integrity and immediate data access, and are commonly used in industries like banking and retail.

505. Does security groups contain Allow and Deny rules?
  No only Allow, the rest is denied by default

506. What are relations between security group and EC2 instance, is it 1-to-1?
  No, it's many-to-many

507. Can the same security group be used in another VPC?
  No, a security group is locked to a specific combination of region and VPC and cannot be used in another VPC.

508. What happens if an application is not accessible due to security group rules?
  If an application is not accessible due to security group rules, it results in a timeout or infinite loading.

509 Can 'connection refused' be caused by Security group settings?
  No, 'connection refused' is typically caused by an application error or the application not being launched.

510. What is the purpose of referencing one AWS security group inside another?
  Referencing one AWS security group inside another allows communication between EC2 instances.

511. How do you connect to an EC2 instance via SSH?
  ssh -i [path_to_key_file] ec2-user@[public_ip_address]

512. What is EC2 `Reserved Instances` Purchase option?
  you reserve Instance type, tenancy and OS, Payment options; Instance scope is Rezion or AZ. Reserved instance may be saled

513. What is EC2 `Convertible Reserved Instances` Purchase option?
  The same as Reserved Instances, byt instance type, Scope (region | az), tenency can be changed. OS cannot be changed

514. What is EC2 `Savings Plans` Purchase option?
  Commitment to an amount of usage (in USD), long workload for 1 year or 3 year. For example I commited to spend 10$/hour for next 1 year. Everything beyong savings plan is billed on demand. You are locked with specific Instance family and region. You are not locked with OS, tenancy (Host, dedicated, default) and instance size.

515. What is EC2 `Spot Instances` Purchase option?
  short workloads, cheap, can lose instances (less reliable), good for batch jobs, Data alalysis, distributed workload, workload with flexible start and end time. Starts when spot price goes lower when price specified by you.

516. What is EC2 `Capacity Reservations` Purchase option?
  Capacity Reservations – reserve capacity in a specific AZ for any duration. Reserve On-Demand instances capacity in a specific AZ for any duration. You always have access to EC2 capacity when you need it No time commitment (create/cancel anytime), NO billing discounts!

517. Can EBS be reattached to another instance?
  Yes

518. Can more than 1 EBS volume be attached to 1 EC2 instance?
  Yes

519. Can 1 EBS volume be attached to more than 1 EC2 instance?
  No, exception: 'multi-attach' feature for some EBS

520. Can I attach EBS to instance in another AZ?
  No, EBS are AZ specific, exception - snapshots

521. When EBS `Delete on Termination` option is enabled by default?
  when it's a root volume

522. What is EBS snapshot archive?
  feature that allows to move snapshot to an "archive tier", it would take from 24 to 72 hour to restore the archive.

523. What is Recycle Bin for EBS snapshot?
  Rule that allow to retain deleted snapshot, basically that's protection from accidental deletion. Possible retention period is from 1 day to 1 year.

524. What is Fast snapshot restore (FSR) in context on EBS?
  Feature that force full initialization of snapshot to have no latency on the first use.

525. Can EBS snapshot be copied into another region?
  Yes

526. Should EBS Volume created from snapshot exist in same AZ?
  No, az can be changed

527. What is AMI?
  Amazon Machine Image, representation of EC2 instance customization. May includes OS, software, monitoring tool

528. Can you use AMI to launch instance accross az?
  Yes

529. Can AMI be copied to another region?
  Yes, even though it's created for specific region

530. What are types of AMI?
  - public (provided by AWS)
  - custom (made by you)
  - AWS Marketplece AMI (made by someone else)

531. What User data will be executed on EC2 instance creted from AMI?
  the one from AMI + the one specified by you (btw, yours should include `#!/bin/bash`)

532. Name EBS Volume types
  - General Purpose SSD (gp2/gp3)
  - Block Express SSD (io1/io2) (Provisioned IOPS)
  - st1 HDD low cost
  - sc1 HDD lowest cost

533. What type of EBS Volume can be used for root?
  General Purpose SSD (gp2/gp3) and express block io1/io2

534. What EBS types of volumes support EBS Multi-attach?
  Provisioned IOPS  (Block Express SSD ) io1/io2

535. Can Multi-attach enabled EBS volume be used for EC2 instances in diferent AZ?
  No

536. What additional permissions required for EC2 to read/write to Multi-attach enabled EBS volume, if volume already attached to instance?
  None required

537. What is max simultanious amount of ec2 instances for 1 Multi-attach enabled EBS volume?
  16

538. In context of gp2/gp3 EBS Volumes which allow increase of IOPS independently from throughput?
  gp3

539. what are use cases for EBS HDD volumes?
  - st 1 - for Big Data, Data Warhouses, Log Processing
  - sc 1 - infrequent access, lowest cost

540. How can I increace gp2 io?
  by increasing volume size. For EBS gp2 volumes, it has max. IOPS of 16,000 or equivalent 5334 GB

541. What are cluster-aware FS constrains for EBS?
  Multi-attach Volumes must use cluster-aware file system (not XFS, EXT4, etc…)

542. What is pricing model of EFS?
  pay per use

543. What is the instrument to controll access to EFS?
  Security group

544. Explain compatability of EFS with AMI?
  compatable with linux based and not compatable with windows based

545. Does EFS require manual scaling or it scales as it's used?
  It scales as it's used

546. What are EFS Throughput options?
  - Bursting (Provides throughput that scales with the amount of storage for workloads with basic performance requirements.)
  - Provisioned (you can estimate your workload's throughput requirements)
  - Elastic (default)

547. What are EFS Performance options?
  - General Purpose (default)
  - Max I/O(Designed for highly parallelized workloads that can tolerate higher latencies). May be usedfull for Big Data

548. What are EFS storage tiers?
  - standard
  - Infrequent access (cost to retrieve files)
  - archive (cost to retrieve files)

549. How to manage EFS storage tiers lifecycle?
  To do this should implement lifecycle policies. Such managament can be set up during creation

550. What are availability options for EFS?
  - standard (multi az)
  - One Zone (may be good options for development environment)

551. Into how many AZ standard EFS should be mounted?
  3

552. Does EFS encrypted?
  Yes, by KMS

553. What is max amount of attached EFS for one ec2 instance?
  5

554. How many EC2 instances can use a single EBS, Multi-Attach EBS, and EFS?
  A single EBS volume can be attached to one EC2 instance, Multi-Attach EBS can be attached to up to 16 instances, and EFS has no specified limit.

555. What are the Availability Zone constraints for EBS and EFS?
  EBS and One-Zone EFS are limited to one AZ, while standard EFS can span multiple AZs.

556. How does disk size management differ between EBS gp2, EBS gp3, and EFS?
  EBS gp2 size can be increased with IO adjustments, EBS gp3 size can be increased independently from IO, and EFS size increases automatically.

557. How is migration across AZs and regions handled for EBS and EFS?
  EBS - creating snapshots and copying them to the target AZ or region
  EFS - none required for AZ (since multi AZ service);  For regions - data must be manually copied or synced using tools like AWS DataSync

558. What operating systems are supported by EFS and EBS?
  EFS supports Linux-based systems, while EBS supports all operating system options.

559. What are the backup considerations for EBS?
  Backing up EBS volumes uses IO and may impact traffic.

560. What is generally cheaper EFS or EBS?
  EBS

561. Can RDS and ElasticCache scale vertically or horizontally?
  only vertically

562. What is term for increasing number of instances 'scale out' or 'scale in'?
  scale out

563. Given 2 ec2 instance in 1 target group. Do healths check performs be done on EC2 level or target group level?
  Health checks are at the target group level

564. Can application get original client's ip address/ port/protocol if ALB present?
  Yes, in relevant headers
    ip - X-Forwarded-For
    port - X-Forwarded-Port
    proto(crotocol being used) - X-Forwarded-Proto

565. What are the target types supported by an NLB?
  - EC2 Instances
  - IP Addresses
  - Lambda Functions
  - Application Load Balancer
  - Containers

566. Can ALB be mapped to multiple AZs?
  Yes, ALB must be mapped at least to 2 AZs and at least 1 subnet in each az

567. What are ALB rules Limits?
  100 total rules per Application Load Balancer (excluding default ones)
  5 condition values per rule
  5 wildcards per rule
  5 weighted target groups per rule

568. How to set up ALB rules priority?
  1 is highest and  50000 is lowest

569. What are Networr Load Balancer (NLB) features?
  - forward TCP/UDP/TLS traffic to instances
  - hadles millions request per second
  - less latency ~100ms (vs 400 for ALB)
  - handles one static IP per AZ
  - support assigning Elastic IP (helpfull for whitelisting specific IP)
  - used for extreme performance

  Exam Hint - if app supposed to be accesed via 1-3 ips than it might be a sigh that NLB is correct option.

570. What protocols are supported by NLB Health Checks?
  TCP, HTTP and HTTPS

571. What can be in target group for Gateway Load Balancer GWLB?
  - EC2 instances (can be managed by Auto Scaling Group)
  - IP adresses (MUST be private IPs)

572. Depending on ELB type is Cross-Zone Load Balancing enabled by default, does it requires additional costs for inter AZ data?
  ALB - Yes, can be disabled at the Target Group level, no additional charges

  NLB & GWLB - No, charges for inter AZ data if enabled

  CLB - No, no additional charges

573. What Server Name Indication (SNI) does?
  It allows multiple ssl certificates in the same web server. For example for multiple hostnames. SNI requires client to indicate the hostname of target server in initial SSL handshake, then server finds appropriate certificate or return the default one.

574. Which AWS services support Server Name Indication SNI?
  ALB, NLB, CloudFront

575. What is connention draining (deregistration delay) min/max/default duration?
  0/ 3600sec /300sec

576. Is it possible to stop EC2 instance before connection draining finished?
  No

577. How ASG usage is charged?
  ASG is free to use, but you still pay for underlying ec2

578. What are  metric for EC2 scaling?
  - CPUUtilization
  - RequestCountPerTarget
  - Average Network In / Out (if you’re application is network bound, there are lots of uploads and downloads)
  - Any custom metric (that you push using CloudWatch)

579. What is `Scaling Colldowns` in terms of ASG?
  Whenever you add or you remove instances, you are entering the cooldown period (default 300 seconds).
  During the cooldown period, the ASG (auto scaling group) will not launch or terminate additional instances (to allow for metrics to stabilize)

580. What is the meaning of `Instance warmup` in context of Target Tracking Scaling?
  It's a period of time during which this instance is not used for counting metric.

581. What is `Instance Refresh`?
  Feature of auto-scaling group that allows to update all instances by updating launch template.

582. what type of ELB provides static DNS name?
  ALB and NLB

583. Name DB engines that can be used in AWS RDS.
  - Postgres
  - MySQL
  - MariaDB
  - Oracle
  - Microsoft SQL Server
  - IBN DB2
  - Aurora

584. Which DB Engines supports RDS Storage Auto Scaling?
  All of them

585. What is max number or RDS read replicas?
  15

586. What are type of RDS read replicas depending on AZs?
  - Same AZ
  - Cross AZ
  - Cross region

587. Are data is eventually consistent with RDS read replicas ?
  Yes

588. Is there a charge for RDS read replicas for data transfer accross AZ/Region?
  There is no charge for moving data across AZ since RDS is Amazon managed service, but there is an cost for data replication accross region.

589. What is the difference between between Multi AZ RDS and RDS read replicas in terms of DNS name?
  - same for Multi AZ, provides automatic failover to standby
  - diffent for Read replicas, updated connection string is required

590. Can RDS snapshot be used for creation of DB in different region?
  Yes, but you need to migrate snapshot into another region first

591. What are boungaries in which AWS Aurora Shared Volume size can automatically grows?
  10GB to 128 TB

592. What the min amount of copies for AWS Aurora?
  6 copies in 3 AZ. Only 4 required for read, only 3 copies required for write

593. How many master instances AWS Aurora uses for writes?
  1

594. What is the max time of failover for AWS Aurora?
  < 30 seconds

595. Does AWS Aurora supports 'cross region' replicas?
  Yes

596. How much read replicas AWS Aurora can have?
  Up to 15, with replica lag under 10-ms

597. Does AWS Aurora supports Auto-scaling on replicas quantity?
  Yes

598. What term `backtrack` means in terms of AWS Aurora?
  restoring data at any point of time without using backups

599. Does RDS support in-flight encryption by default?
  Yes, And so therefore, your clients must use the TLS root certificates from AWS. They're provided on the AWS website.

600. Describe RDS Proxy.
  It allows apps to pool and share DB connections established with the database. Improving database efficiency by reducing the stress on database resources (e.g., CPU, RAM) and minimize open connections (and timeouts)

601. Can RDS Proxy be public?
  No, RDS Proxy is never publicly accessible (must be accessed from VPC)

602. Name synonyms of Lazy-Loading
  - Cache-Aside
  - Lazy Population

603. Name cases for Cache Evictions
  - You delete the item explicitly in the cache
  - Item is evicted because the memory is full and it’s not recently used (Least Recently Used - LRU)
  - You set an item time-to-live (or TTL). It's better not to set TTL with Write-through strategy.

604. What are differences between Elasticache and MemmoryDB?
  MemmoryDB is actually a DB. Redis - is cache with some durability. MemmoryDB has Redis-compatible API.

605. What max read capacity for MemmoryDB?
  over 160 millions requests/second

606. What is the maximum number of Read Replicas you can add in an ElastiCache Redis Cluster with Cluster-Mode Disabled?
  5

607. What is route 53
  Ii is fully managed and Authoritative DNS, Route 53 is also a Domain Registrar.
    Authoritative means you can update DNS record

608. What types of DNS record does Route 53 support?
  A / AAAA / CNAME / NS and some others

609. Explain 'A' DNS type.
  It maps a hostname to IPv4

610. Explain 'AAAA' DNS type.
  It maps a hostname to IPv6

611. Explain 'CNAME' DNS type.
  It maps a hostname to another hostname (which must have 'A' or 'AAAA' record). You cannot create CNAME for top node of a DNS namespace, so 'test.mydomain.com' is OK, but 'mydomain.com' IS NOT OK

612. Explain 'NS' DNS type.
  It's a name servers for the hosted zone, and control how traffic is routed for a domain.

613. What are Route 53 Hosted Zones?
  Hosted Zone is a container for records that define how to route traffic to a domain and its subdomains. Can be private (accessible only inside vpc for getting ip of private resources) or public (accessible for everyone).

614. What is the difference between CNAME and Aliales in context of Route 53?
  - CNAME point to another domain name and only for non root domain
  - Aliale points to AWS resource, both root and non root domain. They are free of charge for quering and have native healthchecks. The TTL cannot be defined manually, it's set automatically by aws

615. What can be used as Route 53 Alias Target Record?
  - ELB (ALB/NLB)
  - Amazon Cloudfront
  - Api Gateway
  - S3 Website (not s3,  but S3 Websites when these buckets are enabled as websites)
  - Elastic Beanstalk
  - VPC Interface Accelerator
  - Route 53 Record (same Hosted Zone)

616. Can You use EC2 DNS name for Route 53 Alias Target Record?
  No

617. Can you create Route 53 record for root domain?
  Yes, leave 'path' blank and choose 'alias' option.

618. Explain `Simple` Route 53 Routing policy.
  Route trafic to single resource. Potentially may return multiple resources, but the the random would be chosen by browser for routing. Health checks CANNOT be assosiated with this type of routing policy.

619. Explain `Weighted` Route 53 Routing policy.
  Route traffic to multiple resources, Control the % of the requests that go to each specific resource. All DNS records must have the same name and type. Health checks CAN be assosiated with this type of routing policy. Potentially may be used for load balancing between regions. Can be associated with Health Checks

620. Explain `Latency (Latency-based)` Route 53 Routing policy.
  Route traffic to multiple resources. Redirect to the resource that has the least latency close to client. Latency is based on traffic between users and AWS Regions. Common use case is multi regional application.  Health checks CAN be assosiated with this type of routing policy.

621. What is DNS Health Checks
  instrument for DNS failover.
  types: Health checks that monitors endpoint, healthcheck that monitors other healthcheck (calculated healthchecks), healthchecks that monitor cloudwatch alarms (private)

622. Descire features of `Health checks that monitors endpoint`.
  15 Health Checker from different region checks whether endpoint is healthy, healthy Threshold by default is 3, interval 30 sec, supported protocols HTTP/HTTPS/TCP.
  If >18% of healthcheckers returns 2xx|3xx than endpoint considered to be healthy. Health check can be setup to pass / fail based on the text in the first 5120 bytes.

623. Does DNS health checks requires additional permissions for access to endpoints them going to check?
  Yes, security group rules should allow that explicitly

624. Describe features of `Calculated Health Checks`.
  - It combines the results of multiple Health Checks into a single Health Check
  - Allowed logical operator for parent health check: OR, AND, or NOT
  - Can monitor up to 256 Child Health Checks
  - You can specify how many of the health checks need to pass to make the parent pass
  - typical use case: perform maintenance to your website without causing all health checks to fail

625. Describe features of `Private Hosted Zones health-check`.
  Since health check is ouside vpc it cannot access resource directly. Instead CloudWatch metric can be defined for resource and relevant alarm can be set. Than you can create health check that checks that alarm itself.

626. Explain `Failover` Route 53 Routing policy.
  Send trafic to 'active' instance while it's healthy, redirect trafic to 'standby' instance once it's unhealty. Health check is required for main instance and is optional for secondary instance.

627. Explain `Geolocation` Route 53 Routing policy.
  It is based on user location. You may use Continent, Country or by US State (if there’s overlapping, most precise location selected). Make sure you selected 'default' option as well for the case there is no match. Can be associated with Health Checks

628. Explain `Geoproximity` Route 53 Routing policy.
  It routes traffic to your resources based on the geographic location of users and resources. Optionaly you can shift percentage of user to be higher or lower for specific resource by setting the 'bias'. Deafult 'bias' is 0, possible range -99 to 99. You must use Route 53 Traffic Flow to use 'bias' feature. Trafic frow can be mapped to different Hosted zones, and thus to different domains. Traffic Flow may be created on 'trafic policies' tab.

629. Explain `IP-based` Route 53 Routing policy.
  basically you provide a list of CIDRs for your clients and the corresponding endpoints/locations. Use cases: Optimize performance, reduce network costs

630. Explain `Multi-Value`/'Multivalue answer' Route 53 Routing policy.
  Response with up to 8 resources and client define on its own which to use. Can be associated with Health Checks (return only values for healthy resources). Multi-Value IS NOT SUITABLE FOR HAVING AN ELB

631. How to define access via Internet and vpc subnet?
  via Route Table

632. What is the purpose of Internet Gateways?
  To connect vpc instances/vpc subnets to internet. Subnet should have route table pointing to Internet Gateways as a target, and 0.0.0.0/0 as destination.

633. What is the purpose of NAT Gateways?
  NAT Gateways (AWS-managed) & NAT Instances (self-managed) allow your instances in your Private Subnets to access the internet while remaining private. Usually NAT Gateways deployed in public subnet and then route from private subnet to NAT instance created. Since NAT has access to Internet Gateways, private subnet can access Internet

634. Explain features of Network ACL.
  - control trafiic from and to subnet
  - can have allow and deny statements
  - stateless
  - only includes IP adresses
  - attached on subnet level
  - allows everything by default
  - rules have number, so not all rules may be applied

635. What is the puprose of VPC Peering?
  To connect vpc in different accounts or different regions. Once they are connected via VPC Peering they behaves as if they are the the same vpc. Must not have overlapping CIDR (IP address range). VPC Peering connection is not transitive (must be established for each VPC that need to communicate with one another). So if you want to connect VPC called A,B and C it should be 3 vpc peering: a-b, a-c, b-c.

636. What Site to Site VPN does?
  - Connect an on-premises VPN to AWS
  - The connection is automatically encrypted
  - Goes over the public internet

637. What direct connect DX does?
  - Establish a physical connection between onpremises and AWS
  - The connection is private, secure and fast
  - Goes over a private network
  - Takes at least a month to establish

638. What are name constrain for S3 bucket?
  no uppercase
  no underscope
  allowed letters, numbers, dots, hyphens
  3-64 characters
  should start with digit or letter
  not an IP
  prefixes 's3alias' OR 'xn--' cannot be at the start

639. What are file size restrictions for S3?
  no more than 5 TB
  if file more than 5GB must use "multi-part upload"
  BTW "multi-part upload" is recommended is file size >=100MB

640. How many tags 1 s3 object can have?
  up to 10

641. Would turning versionning off delete previous versions of objects?
  no

642. What are s3 replication options and what are use cases for them?
  Cross-region replication (CRR) – compliance, lower latency access, replication across accounts
  Same-region replication (SRR) – log aggregation, live replication between production and test accounts

643. Can s3 replication be implemented without versioning enabled?
  no

644. How to replicate S3 object if versioning is disabled?
  use S3 Batch Replication

645. Is s3 replication synchronous or asynchronous?
  asyncronous

646. How replicating works with 'delete' operation?
  object with 'deleted' marker are replicated.
  If specific version ob object explicitly deleted it would not be replicated

647. Given bucket 1 replicated to bucket 2,  bucket 2 replicated to bucket 3. Does object created in bucket 1 would be replicated into bucket 3?
  No, there is no chain replication

648. what is the meaning of 'Delete marker replication' for s3 replication rule?
  enables Delete markers to be replicated as well

649. Explain difference in `retrival time` between Amazon S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval and Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive.
  Flexible Retrieval: Expedited (1 to 5 minutes), Standard (3 to 5 hours), Bulk (5 to 12 hours) – free

  Glacier Deep Archive: Standard (12 hours), Bulk (48 hours)

650. Explain difference in `min storage duration`  between
1) Amazon IA
2) Amazon S3 Glacier Flexible|Instant Retrieval
3) Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive.

  Amazon IA - 30 days
  Amazon S3 Glacier Flexible|Instant Retrieval - 90 days
  Glacier Deep Archive - 180 days

651. Explain charging policy regarding S3 Intelligent-Tiering
  monthly monitoring ($0.0025 per 1000 objs) and auto-tiering fee
  no retrieval charges in S3 Intelligent-Tiering

652. Explain automatic and default configurations for S3 Intelligent-Tiering
  default - standart (automatic)
  no access to object for 30 days - ia (automatic)
  no access to object for 90 days - glacier instant retrieval (automatic)
  no access to object for 90 days - glacier flexible retrieval (optional)
  no access to object for 180 days - glacier deep archive (optional)
  * 30/90/180 - are "days without access", not "days without access on a certain level"

653. What types of information can be retrieved from an AWS EC2 instance's metadata?
  private ip, public ip, IAM Role name and creds can be retrieved, but not IAM policies

654. What is the difference between API Rate Limits and Service quotas?
   API Rate Limit - max quota of api requests per service. Cannot be increased

   Service quotas - the maximum number of a particular resource that you can create in an AWS service, often per AWS. Can be increased

655.  Explain AWS CLI Credentials Provider Chain (priority of credentials)?
  1. cli options --profile, --region, --output
  2. env variables (AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID,AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,AWS_SESSION_TOKEN)
  3. CLI credentials file (~/.aws/credentials)
  4. CLI configuration file (~/.aws/config)
  5. Container credentials – for ECS tasks
  6. Instance profile credentials – for EC2 Instance Profiles (basically IAM Role assosiated with ec2)

656. Explain AWS SDK Credentials Provider Chain (priority of credentials)?
  1. system properties
  2. env variables
  3. default credential profiles file (~/.aws/credentials)
  4. Container credentials – for ECS tasks
  5. Instance profile credentials – for EC2 Instance Profiles

657. Is it possible to create Amazon S3 – Lifecycle Rules for certain prefix in bucket, or only for all objects in a bucket?
  Yes, rules can be created for a certain prefix

658. What are possible event targets for s3 event notifications?
  - SNS
  - SQS
  - Lambda
  - EventBridge. Has advanced filtering options like object size, metadata, name.

659. sns/sqs or lambda is set as a triger for s3 event notification. Should relevant policy be attached to s3 or these resources?
  not to s3 bucket, but to resourse itself

660. What would be in the first message from s3 notification to SQS test of connectivity or action with an object?
  test of connectivity

661. What is rate limit for s3?
  5500 get/head requests per second per prefix
  3500 put/copy/post/delete requests per second per prefix
  so you can write 6000 objects per second in two folder, but not into root

662.  What is the purpose of S3 Byte-Range Fetches?
  S3 Byte-Range Fetches allow for parallelized GET requests by specifying a particular byte range. This technique is useful for speeding up downloads or downloading only partial data from a file stored in S3.

663. What is Glacier Select?
  Glacier Select is the same as S3 Select but for glacier tier.

664. What is user-defined metadata in AWS S3?
  User-defined metadata are key-value pairs that can be set when uploading a file to AWS S3 and retrieved when downloading. Metadata names must begin with "x-amz-meta-" and AWS stores these keys in lowercase.

665. What are S3 Object tags?
  S3 Object tags are key-value pairs associated with S3 objects used for fine-grained access control and can be useful for analytics purposes.

666. Can user defined metadata | s3 tags be used to find specific sets of object?
  No, they are not searchable.

667. What is KMS quota per second per region?
  5500|10000|50000

668. What is DSSE-KMS in context of s3 encryption?
  double encryption based on KMS. Required header:  "s3:x-amz-server-side-encryption":"aws:kms:dsse"

669. How to implement s3 encryption at rest?
  Basically s3 have both http and https endpoints.
  add to resourse policy condition on denying request if "aws:SecureTransport" is "false".

670. Would updating of s3 object's encryption key cause new version of object to be created?
  Yes, so it's better to enable versionning for this use-case

671. Can the default encryption of an existing S3 bucket be changed?
  Yes, the default encryption of an S3 bucket can be changed after it's already created.
  However, changing the encryption key may cause in-progress replication and Batch Replication jobs to fail if they do not have access to the new key.

672. What is the point in Bucket Key enable/disable?
  Enabling it with kms reduces number of requests to kms. DCEE does not support this option.

673. Can SSE-C encryption option be enabled for s3 via console/CLI?
  CLI - yes
  console - no

674. What is evaluated first s3 policy or Default Encryption?
  s3 policy

675. S3 CORS policy allowed requests from https://mydomain.com/, but client still get CORS error. What could be the problem?
  s3 cors policy's origin should not have '/' in the end of url

676. How do S3 access logs work?
  When someone accesses an S3 bucket, a corresponding log entry is created and stored in a designated logging bucket.
  This logging bucket should be in the same region as the target bucket.
  It is crucial to ensure that the logging bucket is not the same as the target bucket to avoid creating a logging loop.

677. Do you need to update bucket policies when enabling s3 access logging?
  If enabled via console - no, console updates resourse policy of log bucket on its own

678. What is min/max/default expiration time for s3 presigned url?
  min - 1s
  default - 3600 s
  max via cli/sdk - 604800 sec (7days)
  max via console - 12h

679. What is S3 Access Point?
  feature that provide read/write access to certain part(s) of a bucket. Has it's own dns name, and an access point. DNS name may be Internet origin or VPC Origin.

680. What is min/max/default TTL for Cloudfront cache?
  0/1year/24h

681. Is CloudFront regional service or global?
  global

682. What is CloudFront Cache Key?
  unique identifier of object in cache, by default thats host + the name of resourse (like 'https://d15ia6z5ya35lq.cloudfront.net/beach.jpg', without queries params).
  You can customize cache key to include HTTP headers, cookies, query strings via CloudFront Cache Policies to cache object based on what was user/location/language

683. What can be specified in CloudFront Cache Policies?
  - HTTP Headers: None – Whitelist
  - Cookies: None – Whitelist – Include All-Except – All
  - Query Strings: None – Whitelist – Include All-Except – All
  - Control the TTL (0 seconds to 1 year), can be set by the origin using Cache-Control, Expires

684. Is that correct that  all HTTP headers, cookies, and query strings that you include in the Cache Key are automatically included in origin requests?
  Yes

685. Describe Origin Request Policy in context of CloudFront.
  it allows to add certain values into origin request without including them into Cache Key. May be usefull to prevent cache content to be duplicated.
  Can include:
    HTTP headers: none, All viewer headers options, whitelist
    Cookies: None – Whitelist – All
    Query Strings: None – Whitelist – All

  * viewer headers options allows to pass headers not send by a client, typical use case - sending api key or secret header

686. During CloudFront Cache invalidation can I invalidate only part of the cache or all cache will be invalidated?
  both options are possible, you can invalidate all files (*) or a special path (/images/*)

687. What is the priority of Default Cache Behavior if other cache behaviors exists?
  default cache behavior '/*' has the lowest priority

688. What can be files source of origin for cloudfront?
  - s3
  - Custom Origin (HTTP)

689. Can I set up private EC2 instance to be origin for Cloudfront?
  No, there is no private connectivity between them, you'll need public ip/dns of ec2.

690. Can I set up ALB with private EC2 instances to be origin for Cloudfront?
  Yes, but only if ALB is public, or at least public ips of cloudfront should be added to security group rules

691. Can Cloudfront be used to control geographical restrictions?
  Yes, geo location is based on user's ip. Can be turn on on 'security' tab.
  Can be configured as 'allow' or 'block' list

692. What are types of signers of CloudFront Signed URL?
  1) trusted key group (recommended), can leverage APIs to create and rotate keys (and IAM for API security)
  2) An AWS Account that contains a CloudFront Key Pair, need to manage keys using the root account and the AWS console. Basically key pair is generated for root user.

693. What are price classes of cloudfront?
  all - best performance, Use all edge locations (best performance)
  200 - Use North America, Europe, Asia, Middle East, and Africa
  100 - Use only North America and Europe

694. What is CloudFront Field Level Encryption?
  Feature that protects sensitive information through application stack.
  Sensitive information encrypted at the edge close to user.
  Uses asymmetric encryption.
  - Basically you specify a set of fields in POST requests that you want to be encrypted (up to 10 fields)
  - Specify the public key to encrypt them
  - edge location encrypt data with public Key
  - ec2 instances (origins) decrypt information with private key

695. If real time logs for Cloudfront enabled where would they be sent into?
  Kinesis Data Stream, and later you may concume it with lambda.

696. What are ECS Launch types?
  EC2 Launch type - you provicion and maintain infrastructure on your own. ECS cluster composed of multiple EC2 instances and on each of them ECS Agent should be run. EC2 instance profile is used as IAM policy.

  Fargate Launch Type - infrastructure managed by aws. You create task definition and AWS run tasks based on the CPU/RAM you need. Scaling does not require new EC2 instances to be created by you. Instead You just increase amount of tasks. Specific task role (as IAM role) may be used per task. Task role should be defined in task definition.

697. Explain interaction between ECS and load balancers.
  ALB can be used in front of ECS Cluster.
  NLB only recommended for high throughput/high performance use cases, or to pair with AWS Private Link.
  CLB not recommended to be used, and cannot be used with Fargate

698. Explain persistance of data accross ECS.
  EFS can be mounted for both EC2 and Fargate Launch types. Multiple tasks can reference the same EFS. Data can be shared accross multiple AZs between running tasks.
  However S3 cannot be mounted as file system for ECS

699. What is the ephemeral storage size for ECS?
  20-200 GB

700. What ECS Auto Scaling metrics may be used for AWS Application Auto Scaling?
  - Average cpu utilization
  - Average memmory utilization
  - ALB request count per target

701. What are ways to scale EC2 Launch Type in ECS?
  Auto Scaling Group Scaling (scale based on cpu utilization)
  ECS Cluster Capacity Provider (Capacity Provider paired with an Auto Scaling Group)

702. Explain ECS Rolling Updates.
  Aws feature allowing to set min/max percentage of healthy instances during update.

703. Name common architectural patterns with ECS.
  s3 -> Event Bridge -> run ECS Task (ecs task should have appropriate task role)
  Event Bridge Schedule -> run ECS Task
  sqs -> tasks poll messages from sqs -> ECS Service autoscaling scale tasks depending on number of messages in
  ecs task stop -> event to event bridge -> sns -> email of admin

704. What information should be in ECS task definition?
  - image name
  - port binding for container and host
  - Memory and cpu utilization
  - environment variables
  - network information
  - iam role
  - logging configuration (ex CloudWatch)

705. How many containers may be defined per task definition?
  up to 10

706. What is Dynamic host mapping in context of ECS? What security rules are required to allow it?
  When ECS on EC2 used and no port mapping provided port of container(s) is static but port of host changes over time and container accessible from different port.

  ALB can access these containers due to dynamic port mappping.

  EC2 instance security group must allow connection from 'any' port from ALB security group to allow Dynamic host mapping

707. What are relations between IAM role and ECS Task Definition?
  1 role per 1 task definition. For service created from this task definition each task would get the same ecs task role. Role is defined ONLY on task definition level, not service level.

708. How to set Environment variables from ecs task definiton?
  - can be hardcoded (public info)
  - ssm parameter store (api keys/ shared config )
  - secret manager (passwords)
  - env files (bulk) - in s3

709. Explain 'Bind Mounts' in context of ECS containers.
  It works both for ec2 and fargate. Bind mount is data volume, which serves as shared storage. Containers may have read/write access to it.

  If EC2 instance is used than EC2 Instance storage is used as bind mounst.
  If it's a Fargate task - then ephemeral storage of containers is used as bind mounts.

710. What are patterns in ussage of `Bind Mounts`?
  - share data with multiple containers
  - `sidecar` - used for sending metrics/logs for other destinations(separation of concerns)

711. What is an "essential" container in an ECS task definition?
  - In AWS ECS task definitions, an "essential" container is one that, when it fails (stoped or terminated), stops all other containers in the task.
  - This is controlled by setting the "essential" parameter to true for a container in the task definition.

712. What are ecs logging options?
  - cloudwatch logs
  - via AWS FireLens
      Firehouse
      Kinesis
      opensearch
      s3
      custom

713. What are timeouts in ecs task definition settings?
  start timeout - if it doesn't start fast enough then it gets killed
  stop timeout - task is get killed before it properly ends

714. What is 'Task Placement' in context of ECS?
  It's process of determining where to place it, with the constraints of CPU and memory (RAM) a starting/stoping if Launch type is EC2. The same for start/stop of container.
  This is related to EC2 Launch type only and not Fargate.

715. Describe the task placement strategies.
  - Binpack - Tasks are placed on the least available amount of CPU and Memory to minimizes the number of EC2 instances in use (cost savings)

  - Random - Tasks are placed randomly

  - Spread - Tasks are placed evenly based on the specified value. Example: instanceId, attribute:ecs.availability-zone,

716. How to enable tasks of the same type to be run on the same ec2 container?
  You need to enable random host port, set host port = 0 (or empty)

717. Can ECS `task placement` strategies be mixed together?
  Yes, for example spread for az and binpack on memory

718. What are ECS `Task Placement` Constraints?
  distinctInstance - Tasks are placed on a different EC2 instance

  memberOf - tasks are placed on EC2 instances that satisfy a specified expression, Uses the Cluster Query Language

719. what is a preferable tool for scanning docker images to find possible vulnerabilities?
  Amazon Inspector

720. What is AWS Copilot?
  - CLI tool to build, release, and operate ontainerized apps. Provisions all required infrastructure for containerized apps (ECS, VPC, ELB, ECR…).
  - Automated deployments with one command using CodePipeline
  - Allows to deploy to ECS, Fargate, AWS App Runner

721. Which types of nodes EKS supports?
  - Managed Node Groups
    Creates and manages Nodes (EC2 instances). Nodes are part of an Auto scaling group (ASG) managed by EKS. There is support of On-Demand or Spot Instances

  - Self-Managed Nodes
    Provides more customization and control. Nodes created by you and registered to the EKS cluster and managed by an ASG. You can use prebuilt AMI. Supports On-Demand or Spot Instances

  - AWS Fargate
      No maintenance required; no nodes managed

722. How to attach Data Volumes for EKS Cluster?
  specify it as 'StorageClass' in EKS cluster manifest.

723. What servises may serve as Data Volumes for EKS Cluster?
  - Amazon EBS
  - Amazon EFS (the only storage that works with Fargate)
  - Amazon FSx for Lustre
  - Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP

724. In context ECS in /etc/ecs/ecs.config, which ECS configuration option should you enable to enable IAM roles for your ECS tasks so that they can make API requests to AWS services?
  ECS_ENABLE_TASK_IAM_ROLE

725. Name common reaons why EC2 Instance cannot be registred by ECS.
  - ECS Agent is not running.
  - The AMI used isn't Amazon ECS-optimized AMI
  - The EC2 container instance is missing IAM permissions

726. Is Elastic Beanstalk free?
  Yes, but underlying resources are not.

727. Describe Elastic Beanstalk Lifecycle.
  1. Create app
  2. upload version
  3. launch env
  4. manage env
  updating version moves lifecycle to step 2

728. Name Elastic Beanstalk deployment modes.
  - Single instance
  - High Availability with Load Balancer

729. What are the deployment options for updates in AWS Elastic Beanstalk?
  - All at once
  - Rolling
  - Rolling with additional batch
  - Immutable
  - Blue/Green:  Not a direct feature of Beanstalk. Creates a new environment (green) with the new version + swaps URL

730. What is "swap environment URLs" in AWS Elastic Beanstalk?
  "Swap environment URLs" in AWS Elastic Beanstalk is a feature that allows you to redirect the traffic from one environment (Blue) to another environment (Green) without downtime.

731. What is AWS Beanstalk limit per account?
	1000 app versions per account

732. How to perform Elastic Beanstalk Migration?
  1. Clone env, except load balancer. AWS does not exactly clone resourses but create new instances from the same config
  2. deploy app to new env
  3. perform a CNAME swap or Route 53 update

733. How to decouple RDS from Elastic Beanstalk?
  1. create snapshot of rds db (just in case)
  2. protect the rds db from deletion
  3. create new Elastic Beanstalk environment, without RDS, point your app to existing RDS DB.
  4. perform CNAME swap or Route 53 Update.
  5. Terminate the old env (RDS should stay)
  6. Delete CloudFormation stack (in DELETE_FAILED state), and if required other resourses

734. Can you use the !Ref function for the 'Conditions' section in AWS CloudFormation templates?
  No

735. Can you create a dynamic number of resources in AWS CloudFormation?
  Yes, you can create a dynamic number of resources in AWS CloudFormation by using CloudFormation Macros and the Transform function.

736. What is a workaround for using AWS resources not natively supported by CloudFormation?
  The workaround is to use a CloudFormation Custom Resource.

  The essential attribute for a custom resource is the 'ServiceToken', which is an ARN (Amazon Resource Name) to which CloudFormation sends requests.

  This can be backed by a Lambda function or SNS.

  example:
  Resources:
    MyCustomResource:
      Type: 'AWS::CloudFormation::CustomResource'
      Properties:
        ServiceToken: arn:aws:lambda:us-west-2:123456789012:function:my-function
        Property1: 'Value'
        Property2: 'Value'

737. How to prevent parameters values from being outputed to logs?
 Include "NoEcho" property into Parameters section

738. How to export exporting data from CloudFormation stack to other stacks within the same region?
  Define resourses to be exported in 'Output' section under property 'Export', and in target stack import them with Fn::ImportValue (!ImportValue)

739. Name and explain intrinsic functions to define conditions:

  Fn::And - It takes an array of conditional statements and returns true if all the conditions are met. Number of arguments is from 2 to 10. It acts as an AND operator.

  Fn::Or - the same as Fn::And but acts as an OR operator (require at least 1 condition to be true)

  Fn::Equals - Compares if two values are equal. Returns true if the two values are equal or false if they aren't.

  Fn::ForEach

  Fn::If - takes 3 argument, if 1st true - returns 2nd, otherwise- 3rd,
    example:
        Size:
        'Fn::If':
          - CreateLargeSize
          - '100'
          - '10'

740. What Fn::Join (!Join) does?
  takes 2 args in a format [ delimiter, [ comma-delimited list of values ] ], return concatenated string

741. What Fn::Sub (!Sub) does?
  Substitute variables within a string.

742. What Fn::Base64 (!Base64) does? What are common use cases?
  Convert string (1 argument) to Base64. common use case is to pass user data to an Amazon EC2 instance. The user data script must be base64-encoded.

743. What Fn::Cidr does?
  It accepts an IP network address, a count, and a network bit mask, and returns a list of CIDR blocks. It's commonly used to create unique network subnets for a VPC.
  example:
    Fn::Cidr:
    - "10.0.0.0/16"
    - 5 (how many subnets to be generated)
    - 8 (The number of subnet bits for the CIDR basically 32 - N)
  This will output: ["10.0.0.0/24", "10.0.1.0/24", "10.0.2.0/24", "10.0.3.0/24", "10.0.4.0/24"]

744. What Fn::Select does?
  It returns a single object from a list of objects by its index. It's used to select specific elements from a list.
  example:
    Fn::Select: [1, ["apples", "bananas", "cherries"]]
    This will output: "bananas"

745. What is a Service Role for CloudFormation and what permissions does it require?
  A Service Role for CloudFormation is an optional IAM role that allows CloudFormation to create, update, and delete stack resources on your behalf.
  The user must have the iam:PassRole permission

746. What CloudFormation Capabilities should be specified during the 'CreateStack' operation and what do they enable?

  During the 'CreateStack' operation, you should specify:
    - CAPABILITY_IAM and CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM if CloudFormation is managing IAM resources. CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM is required for IAM resources with custom names.

    - CAPABILITY_AUTO_EXPAND is necessary when your template includes Macros or Nested Stacks for dynamic transformations. Not specifying required capabilities may result in an InsufficientCapabilitiesException.

747. What is CloudFormation's DeletionPolicy and what are its possible values?
  CloudFormation's DeletionPolicy is an attribute set on resources in a CloudFormation template that determines the action when a resource is removed from the template or the stack is deleted. Possible values are:
    - Delete
    - Retain
    - RetainExceptOnCreate
    - Snapshot

748. What is the RetentionPolicy in the context of a CloudFormation template and what are its possible values?
  This property specifies whether old versions of your LayerVersion are retained or deleted when you delete a resource.
  possible values: Retain | Delete

749. What is a CloudFormation Stack Policy and what is its default behavior?
  A CloudFormation Stack Policy is a JSON document that defines which update actions are allowed on specific resources during stack updates.

  By default, when a Stack Policy is set, all resources in the stack are protected from updates unless explicitly allowed by specifying an ALLOW action for specific resources.

750. What is CloudFormation Termination Protection?
  CloudFormation Termination Protection is a feature that prevents accidental deletion of a stack.

751. What are CloudFormation StackSets?
  CloudFormation StackSets allow you to create, update, or delete stacks across multiple AWS accounts and regions with a single operation.

  This is done using one template from a single AWS account, allowing consistent and synchronized stack deployment across different regions and ACCOUNTS.

752. What is max message size of SQS message?
  256kb, max size can be set between 1-256Kb during sqs creation. 256 is a default

753. What cloudwatch metric should be used to scale sqs consumers?
  ApproximateNumberOfMessages

754. What is the purpose of attaching a resource policy to an SQS queue?
  - to manage cross account access
  - Publishing S3 Event Notifications to SQS Queue

755. Is it possible to publish a message to an encrypted SQS queue, and what permissions are needed?
  Yes
  - sqs:SendMessage
  - kms:GenerateDataKey
  - kms:Decrypt

756. How can a consumer change the visibility timeout of a specific SQS message?
  via ChangeMessageVisibility API

  The count for the new visibility timeout starts from the time this API call is made.

  So if 10 sec elapsed and new visibility is 35 the message will be visible in 45 seconds from the moment consumer started processing it.

757. What happens when the MaximumReceives threshold in SQS is exceeded and what are the best practices for the Dead Letter Queue (DLQ)?
  When the `MaximumReceives` threshold is exceeded in SQS, the message is moved to DLQ (if any).
  MaximumReceives values : 1 - min; 10 - default; 1000 - max
  It is a good practice to set a higher retention period for the DLQ.

758. How to oveeride delay time for 1 specific SQS message?
  via DelaySeconds API

759. Name SQS Batch APIs?
  - SendMessageBatch
  - DeleteMessageBatch (deleting processed messages)
  - ChangeMessageVisibilityBatch

760. What are FIFO SQS queue limitations?
  receiving up to 300 messages/second (without batch).
  Batching can pottentially multiply it by 10.
  up to 40000 messages in a queue

761. What does the content-based deduplication option do in the context of FIFO SQS queues?
  Content-based deduplication automatically deduplicates messages within a 5-minute time window based on their content.

  It is enabled by default for FIFO queues. Applies to the entire FIFO SQS queue by default, but can be configured to be be applied to specific group.

  Messages with identiacal body and attributes are considered to be a duplicate by default.

762. What is max number of sns publishers per 1 topic?
  no specific limit

763. What is max number of sns subscripers per 1 topic?
  12,5 millions

764. what is max number of sns topics per account?
  100 000

765. What can be a sns subscriber?
  - Email + Email JSON
  - sms/mobile notification
  - http/s endpoint
  - sqs
  - lambda
  - Kinesis Data Firehouse (may send it to S3, Redshift, OpernSearch other service providers)

766. What AWS services can serve as SNS publishers?
  - CloudWatch Alarms
  - S3 (for bucket events)
  - Auto Scaling Groups (for notifications)
  - CloudFormation (for state changes)
  - AWS Budgets Lambda
  - AWS Database Migration Service (DMS) for replication tasks
  - DynamoDB
  - Amazon RDS (for database events)

767. Can messages from an SNS topic in one AWS region be sent to an SQS queue in another AWS region?
  Yes, SNS supports cross-region delivery
  Extra permissions are required: sns:Publish on SNS and sqs:SendMessage on SQS

768. What is SNS FIFO?
  that's sns that preserves order of messages withing message group.
  There is Deduplication using a Deduplication ID or Content Based Deduplication.
  Throughput is limited (the same as for sqs fifo).
  Can send messages both for fifo and standart sqs.
  Only SQS can subscribe to FIFO SNS.
  Common use case - fan-out pattern with message deduplication and order preservation

769. How many times message would be delivered for standart SNS topic?
  at least once

770. What components make up a record sent to a Kinesis Data Stream?
  - Partition Key: This key determines the shard to which the record is assigned.
  - Data Blob (value): This is the actual data of the record, which can be up to 1 MB in size.

771. What additional attribute Kinesis Data Stream  message obtain before send to consumer?
 "SequenceNumber": string which represents where the record was in the shard. It cannot be set by producer.

772. What are the maximum read rates of Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) in default and enhanced consumer modes?

  Default consumer mode: The maximum read rate is 2MB per second per shard for all consumers combined, with a limit of 5 GetRecords API calls per second. The expected latency is around 200 ms.

  Enhanced consumer mode: Each consumer can read at 2MB per second per shard, with a latency of around 70 ms. There is a soft limit of 5 consumer applications per shard, which can be increased by submitting a service limit increase request.

773. What can serve as Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) consumer?
  - Apps (KCL, SDK)
  - Lambda
  - Kinesis Data Firehose
  - Kinesis Data Analytics

774. What is Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) retention period?
  from 1(default) day to 365 days

775. Can data be reprocessed (replayed) in Amazon Kinesis Data Streams (KDS)?
  Yes, this is possible by resetting the shard iterator to an earlier sequence number or timestamp, allowing consumers to re-read data from a specified point.

776. Can Data be deleted from Kinesis?
  No, it ensures immutability

777. Describe KDS Capacity modes.
  Provisioned mode:
    You choose the number of shards provisioned, scale manually or using API
    Each shard gets 1MB/s in (or 1000 records per second)
    Each shard gets 2MB/s out (classic or enhanced fan-out consumer)
    You pay per shard provisioned per hour
  On-demand mode:
    No need to provision or manage the capacity
    Default in capacity provisioned (2 MB/s in or 2000 records per second)
    Default out capacity provisioned (4 MB/s in or 4000 records per second)
    Scales automatically based on observed throughput peak during the last 30 days
    Pay per stream per hour & data in/out per GB

778. How can you enable private access to an Amazon Kinesis Data Stream?
  create and configure a VPC endpoint

779. How can API calls to Amazon Kinesis Data Streams be monitored?
  via AWS CloudTrail

780. What are difference of Kinesis Producer Library (KPL) and AWS SDK?
  Kinesis Producer Library based on SDK but provides additional features lke batching, compression and retries

781. Whhat is AWS Lambda function limition in term of cosumption from Kinesis Data Stream (KDS)?
  it can handle up to 10 batches per shard simultaneously.
  There is a build-in retry mechanism

782. What is the Kinesis Client Library (KCL) and what are its features?
  - it a Java library
  - Each shard in a stream is read by only 1 KCL instance, but a 1 KCL instance can read from multiple shards.
  - The progress of reading from a stream is checkpointed into Amazon DynamoDB, requiring the app running KCL to have the necessary IAM access.
  - KCL allows for monitoring the progress of other workers and distributes shard workload amongst available workers.
  - Records are processed in order within a shard.
  - KCL version 1 does not support enhanced fan-out consumers; KCL version 2 supports this feature.
  - KCL can run on various platforms including EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, or on-premises environments.

783. What can be KDF Producer?
  App, Client, sdk, kinesis Agent, Kenisis Data Stream, CloudWatch Logs, AWS IoT, AWS EventBridge

784. What are KDF destinations hosted by AWS?
  - S3
  - Amazon Redshift (COPY through S3)
  - Amazon OpenSearch ( this is reaname as ElasticSearch)
  - Splunk

785. Can KDF be consumed by http endpoint?
  Yes

786. What is Firehose pricing model?
  Pay for data going through Firehose

787. What is the role of buffering in Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, and how is it configured?
  In Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, buffering is used to accumulate data into batches before writing it to the destination

  Settings:
    Buffer interval: Can be set between 0 to 900 seconds, with a recommended setting of 300 seconds.
    Buffer size: Can be specified from 1 MB to 128 MB. Setting this determines how quickly the buffer fills up before being sent to the destination.

  If the buffer interval is set to 0, Firehose attempts to deliver data in near REAL-TIME and Buffer size IS REQUIRED

  higher buffer - lower cost, lower buffer - faster processing

788. Explain difference between Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) and Kinesis Data Firehose (KDF) in context of "Purpose".
  KDS: Streaming service for ingest at scale
  KDF: Load streaming data into DB or analityc tools (or 3rd party tool or http) with optional compression and transformation

789. Explain difference between Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) and Kinesis Data Firehose (KDF) in context of "Customization".
  KDS: You write custom code (producer / consumer)
  KDF: Fully managed

790. Explain difference between Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) and Kinesis Data Firehose (KDF) in context of "Scaling".
  KDS: manual, through shard splitting/merging
  KDF: auto-scaling

791. Explain difference between Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) and Kinesis Data Firehose (KDF) in context of "Is suatable for read time app".
  KDS: yes, latency 200 ms (or 70 ms for enchanced consumer)
  KDF: no, only suitable for near-real-time app if Buffer interval is set to 0

792. Explain difference between Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) and Kinesis Data Firehose (KDF) in context of "Stores data".
  KDS: Yes, retention period from 1 to 365 days
  KDF: No

793. Explain difference between Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) and Kinesis Data Firehose (KDF) in context of "Replay capabilities".
  KDS: Yes
  KDF: No

794. What Kinesis Data Analytics (KDA) does in a nutshell?
  - Read stream data
  - analyze data streams in REAL TIME with SQL or Apache Flink
  - optionaly reference some data from s3 to enrich data
  - writes into desinations

795. What can be source for Kinesis Data Analytics for SQL Applications?
  Kinesis Data Streams
  Kinesis Data Firehose

796. What can be destination for Kinesis Data Analytics for SQL Applications?
  Kinesis Data Streams
  Kinesis Data Firehose

797. Describe Kinesis Data Analytics pricing model for SQL Applications.
  Pay for actual consumption rate

798. What are potential use cases for Kinesis Data Analytics for SQL Applications?
  Time-series analytics
  Real-time dashboards
  Real-time metrics

799. What is Managed Apache Flink in AWS (Kinesis Data Analytics for Apache Flink), and what features does it support?
  Managed Apache Flink, provided through AWS Kinesis Data Analytics for Apache Flink, allows users to write and execute Apache Flink applications in the cloud using Java, Scala, or SQL. Features include:

  Supported Data Sources: Kinesis Data Streams and Amazon MSK are primary data sources; however, Kinesis Data Firehose cannot be used as a source.

  Managed Environment: AWS handles provisioning of compute resources, enables parallel computation, and supports automatic scaling to match workload demands.

  Backup and Restore: The service includes application backup features for enhanced data protection and recovery. This service simplifies running complex real-time analytics with reduced management overhead.

800. What Kinesis Video Streams does in a nutshell?
  capture, process, and store video streams

801. What is a namespace in the context of Amazon CloudWatch?
  It's a container for metrics.
  Metrics must be associated with a specific namespace.
  Namespaces isolate metrics from different applications, ensuring that metrics are not mistakenly aggregated across unrelated statistics.
  For example, the "AWS/EC2" namespace contains metrics from all EC2 instances, keeping them distinct from metrics in other namespaces like "AWS/S3".

802. What are dimentions in context of Amazon CloudWatch?
  Dimension is an attribute of a metric (instance id, ImageId, InstanceType, AutoScalingGroupName, environment, etc…).

  each metric have timestamps and can be used to create Dashboards.

  Keep in mind: cpu utilization is not a dimention but metric itself.

803. How many dimentions one CloudWatch metric can have?
  up to 30

804. Expalin how CloudWatch custom metrics works.
  - Use API call PutMetricData
  - Set dimensions (instance id, environment, etc)
  - Choose metric resolution:
      Standard: 1 minute (60 seconds)
      High Resolution: 1|5|10|30 second(s) – Higher cost
  - send as JSON upt to 1MB in size

805. How long does it take for custom metric to appear in calls to ListMetrics?
  up to 15 minutes

806. Can custom CloudWatch metrics be pushed into future/past?
  Yes, up to 14 days into the past, up to 2 hours in a future.

807. What are Cloudwatch logs expiration policies?
  never (default) | from 1 day to 10 year

808. To which service cloudwatch logs can be sent to?
  Amazon S3 (exports)
  Kinesis Data Streams
  Kinesis Data Firehose
  AWS Lambda
  OpenSearch

809. Are cloudwatch logs encrypted?
  By default, no. You can setup custom kms encryption


810. Can CloudWatch Logs Insights search across multiple log groups or multiple AWS accounts?
  Yes

811. What cloudwatch log subscription does?
  It allows to get real-time stream event and sends it to consumer.
  Possible consumers:
    Kinesis Data Streams
    Kinesis Data Firehose
    Lambda
  There is also a possibility to use 'Subscription Filter' - defines which logs are events delivered to your destination.

812. How many suscription filters may be created per 1 CloudWatch log group?
  up to 2

813. What is 'Live Tail' in the context of Amazon CloudWatch?
  'Live Tail' in CloudWatch allows users to view incoming log events in near-real-time from a specific log group and, optionally, log stream.

  Users can start tailing a log group with the option to apply filter patterns to focus on specific logs.

814. Explain difference between CloudWatch Logs Agent & Unified Agent.
  CloudWatch Logs Agent: older and only sends logs to cloudwatch logs
  Unified Agent: Collect additional system-level metrics such as RAM, processes; send logs collection to cloudwatch logs; can be configured with help of SSM Parameter Store

815. What metrics may be collected by CloudWatch Unified Agent?
  Detailed metric of EC/linux server of these categories may be send:
  - CPU
  - Disk metrics, Disk IO
  - RAM
  - Netstat
  - Processes
  - Swap Space (portion of a hard disk drive that is used for virtual memory)

816. Name cloudwatch alarm targets.
  EC2 (Stop, Terminate, Reboot, or Recover)
  Auto Scaling Action (scale in or scale out)
  SNS

817. What is cloudwatch composite alarm?
  Alarm base on 2+ alarm joined by AND|OR condition. Example: if on ec2 instance allarm related to cpu triggered and alarm related to network is trigerred - trigger composite alarm and send it to sns.

818. What is CloudWatch `Synthetics Canary` and its use cases?
  CloudWatch Synthetics Canary allows you to create scripts (Node.js or Python) to monitor APIs, URLs, and websites by simulating user interactions.

  Usually checks endpoint availability and latency.

  Canaries can run on a schedule, integrate with CloudWatch alarms, and utilize a headless Chrome browser for testing.

  A common pattern is to check the instance -> trigger alarm -> update DNS (route 53) to point to another instance

819. What are some common blueprints available for CloudWatch Synthetics Canary?
  Heartbeat Monitor: Loads a URL, stores a screenshot, and an HTTP archive file.

  API Canary: Tests basic read and write functions of REST APIs.

  Broken Link Checker: Collects all links from a URL using document.getElementsByTagName('a').

  Visual Monitoring: Compares screenshots from a canary run to baseline for visual consistency.

  Canary Recorder: Uses the CloudWatch Synthetics Recorder to record actions on a website and generate a Node.js script.

  GUI Workflow Builder: Tests interactions on webpages, such as forms or logins.

820. Does Amazon EventBridge filter incomming events?
  Yes, but this is optional

821. Provide some examples of EventBridge destiantions.
  Compute services: Lambda, ECS task, AWS Batch
  Integration: SQS, SNS, Kinesis Data Stream
  Orchestraion: codeBuild/CodePipeline/Step Function
  EC2 Actions

822. Can I acrhive events in  EventBridge?
  yes

823. Can I replay events in  EventBridge?
  yes

824. What is Amazon EventBridge Schema Registry?
  It is a feature that enables discovery, creation, and management of OpenAPI schemas for events on EventBridge.
  When schema discovery is enabled, schemas of events passing through event buses are automatically added to the registry.
  These schemas can then be downloaded and used to generate code bindings for the events.

825. Can sheduled event be created on custom EventBus (in context of EventBridge )?
  Not shedure are only applicable for default event bus

826. Describe security features in X-Ray.
  - IAM for authorization
  - KMS for encryption at rest

827. What are the ways to enable x-ray in your app?
  1) For Lambda: import x-ray sdk, enable Lambda X-Ray Active Tracing, make sure Lambda has RayWriteOnlyAccess (AWSX-RayWriteOnlyAccess). Ensure that X-Ray is imported in the code
  2) [EC2|on-premise] Install the X-Ray daemon or enable X-Ray AWS Integration.
    it acts as low-level UDP interceptor
    app should have rights to write to x-ray

828. X-Ray API, what `PutTraceSegments` does?
  Uploads segment documents to AWS X-Ray

829. X-Ray API, what `PutTelemetryRecords` does?
  Used by AWS X-Ray daemon to upload telemetry about count of received|rejected segments and connection errors

830. X-Ray API, what `GetSamplingRules` does?
  get sampling rules to know what/when to send data

831. X-Ray API, what `GetSamplingTargets & GetSamplingStatisticSummaries` does?
  get advanced information about sampling rules

832. X-Ray API, what `GetServiceGraph:` does?
  gets main service graph in form of a document

833. X-Ray API, what `BatchGetTraces` does?
  Get list of traces specified bt ID. Each trace is a collection of segment documents that originates from a single request

834. X-Ray API, what `GetTraceSummaries` does?
  Retrieve IDs and annotations for traces available for a specified time frame

835. X-Ray API, what `GetTraceGraph` does?
  GetTraceGraph: Retrieves a service graph for one or more specific trace ID

836. Does Elastic Beanstalk includes X-Ray daemon by default?
  Yes

837. Does Elastic Beanstalk includes X-Ray daemon for Multicontainer Docker by default?
  No, daemon need to be managed manually

838. How to enable X-Ray for Elastic Beanstalk?
  - set aws:elasticbeanstalk:xray: to true in configuration file
  - make sure instance profile has IAM permissions.
  - use X-ray SDK

839. How to configure X-Ray Daemon to send traces from multiple AWS accounts to a central AWS account?
  Create an IAM role in a central account, then create IAM roles in the other accounts to assume this IAM role

840. What are the options for integrating Elastic Beanstalk with ECS using X-Ray?
  - Run an X-Ray daemon per EC2 instance.
  - Implement a "sidecar" pattern where the X-Ray daemon runs alongside each app container, connected via network.
  - For Fargate clusters, include both the app container and X-Ray sidecar in the same Fargate task.

841. How x-ray daemon sidecar pattern can be implemented?
  - setus app and daemon to be started alongside as tasks.
  - for daemon specify in port mapping 'udp' protocol and containerPort '2000', 'hostPort': 0
  - make sure this specified for enviroment variable for app. Env var name: ENV_XRAY_DAEMON_ADDRESS; env var value: 'xray-daemon:2000'
  specify 'links' property for app container, it should be ["xray-daemon"]

842. What is AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry?
  - Tool that provides single set of APIs, libraries, agents.
  - It collects distributed traces and metrics from your apps.
  - Can be auto-instrumented to collect traces without you even changing your code which looks very similar to X-Ray.
  - Traces may be sent to multiple aws services (X-Ray, CloudWatch,Prometheus) or partner solutions (datadog)
  - May be used for aws compute services or for on-premises

843. How long CloudTrail logs are stored? Is there a way to prolong that?
  90 days, can be prolonged by exporting data to s3

844. Are resource modification/creation/deletion is always logged into CloudTrail?
  Yes

845. Does CloudTrail logs data events (GetObject, Lambda execution activity, etc.) by default?
  by default - no

846. Can read and write events be split in AWS CloudTrail?
 Yes

847. What is CloudTrail Insights and what does it detect?
  It's a feature in AWS CloudTrail that detects unusual activity by first establishing a baseline of normal operations. Examples of such activities:
  - inaccurate resource provisioning
  - hitting service limits
  - Bursts of AWS IAM actions

848. What is a common pattern in using EventBridge with CloudTrail?
  capture specific AWS actions (like deletion of a DynamoDB table, assuming a role, or editing inbound rules) -> events to EventBridge -> SNS notification

849. How often metrics would be send to Cloudwatch if `detailed monitoring` enabled?
  once in a minure

850. What is minimum resolution of Cloudwatch High-Resolution Custom Metrics?
  1 second

851. How often CloudWatch Alarm set on a High-Resolution Custom Metric can be triggered?
  Once per 10 seconds

852. What's the max memmory per lambda?
  10 GB

853. Does CPU and Network of Lambda scales independently from memmory?
  No

854. Give some examples of Lambda Synchronous/Asynchronous Invocations.
  Synchronous: API Gateway, Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, CloudFront(Lambda@Edge), Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Step Functions
  Asynchronous: SNS, S3 Event, CloudWatch Events, EventBridge

855. How does asynchronous invocation retries work in AWS Lambda?
  - It involves an internal queue.
  - If a Lambda function returns an error, it retries up to a total of 3 attempts: there is a 1-minute wait after the first attempt and a 2-minute wait after the second.
  - By default, there may be up to 2 retries, but this can be adjusted to 1 or 0.
  - The maximum age of the event can also be configured, with a default setting of 6 hours.

856. Are items removed from a Kinesis Shard after processing?
  Once items are processed in a Kinesis Shard, they are not removed from the stream, allowing other consumers to read them (unlike SQS)

857. How to speed up consumption of steam data (Kinesis|DynamoDB) by Lambda?
  You are supposed to set up Lambda to process multiple batches in parallel at the shard level
  At mosts 10 batches can be get per shard
  It be defined by `Concurent batches per shard` attribute.
  If Lambda fails it causes all messages in batch to be reprocessed.
  Order of messages are quaranteed for each partition key (not per shard)

858. What is recommended message visibility timeout for SQS whose consumer is lambda?
  lambda's timeout multiplied by 6

859. Can I use DQL on Lambda when invocation is synchronous?
  No, you are supposed to do it with async invocations only.
  SNS - yes
  SQS - no (set up DQL for queue itself)

860. What happens when an error occurs while Lambda is consuming an SQS queue?
  When an error occurs in Lambda while consuming an SQS queue, the batches are returned to the queue as individual items. These items may then be processed in a different grouping than the original batch.

861. How to send Cloudwatch logs?
  via sdk, CloudWatch Logs Agent (depricated), CloudWatch Unified Agent

862. What is the scaling limit for AWS Lambda in terms of instance creation?
  up to 60 new instances per minute.

863. What `Batch window` means in context of lambda integration with sqs?
  The maximum amount of time to gather records before invoking the function, in seconds. When batch size more than 10 it should be at least 1 sec. By default - 0 sec

864. What IAM permissions are required for Lambda integration with SQS?
  AWSLambdaSQSQueueExecutionRole, (basically receive/delete messages)

865. What options are available in Lambda-Kinesis integration?
  - you can choose a consumer if there is at least one enhanced consumer
  - 'Starting position' settings has following values: 'Latest', 'Trim Horizon' (oldest), and 'At Timestamp' (start from a specific timestamp in milliseconds)
  - 'Concurrent batches per shard' defines batches (up to 10)
  - SQS/SNS can be configured as on-failure destination

866. What does lambda context object contain?
  - functions's name, version, arn, memory limit
  - request id
  - log group / stream name
  - identity (Information about the Amazon Cognito identity)

867. What can be used as destination of Lambda's 'onFailure' | 'on Success' properties
  SQS|SNS|Lambda|EventBridge

868. What type of IAM configuration is required for AWS Lambda when using event source mapping with services like SQS or a stream?
  For AWS Lambda to interact with services like SQS or streams through event source mapping, it must have an appropriate IAM role for polling.
  This configuration requires setting permissions through an IAM role rather than a Lambda resource policy.

869. What permission is required in the Lambda resource policy to allow the S3 service to send messages to Lambda?
  The permission 'lambda:InvokeFunction' must be allowed in the Lambda resource policy to enable the S3 service to send messages to a Lambda function.

870. What IAM policy allows lambda to  be deployed into VPC?
  AWSLambdaVPCAccessExecutionRole

871. What does the 'Iterator Age' CloudWatch metric indicate for AWS Lambda?
  The 'Iterator Age' CloudWatch metric for AWS Lambda indicates the age of the last record processed by Lambda from a stream-based source such as Kinesis or DynamoDB Streams.
  It measures the time difference between when the last record was added to the stream and when Lambda processed it, reflecting any processing lag.

872. What are the memory and language restrictions for CloudFront Functions?
  CloudFront Functions have a memory limit of 2MB and currently only support the JavaScript language for writing functions.

873. What are language restrictions for Lambda@Edge?
  Javascript and Python are supported.

874. What are limitations of Lambda@Edge in terms of RPS and concurrent execution?
  max concurrent execution allross all functions in a region is 1000
  max PRS: 5000 - for viewer, 1000 - for origin

875. What are the general requirements and considerations for configuring AWS Lambda in a VPC?
  To configure AWS Lambda in a VPC, you need a VPC ID, subnet, and security group.
  The `AWSLambdaVPCAccessExecutionRole` is necessary for Lambda to create the ENI.
  Lambda automatically creates an Elastic Network Interface (ENI) in your subnet, allowing access to private resources.
  A specific security group should be associated with this ENI.
  Additionally, the security group of resources in the private subnet should allow incoming traffic from Lambda's security group.

876. Can AWS Lambda deployed in a public or private subnet access the internet by default? Does any extra actions are required to accure access to the Internet?
  No, unlike EC2 instances in a public subnet.
  To enable internet access for Lambda, route outbound traffic through a NAT gateway located in a public subnet, which should be connected to an internet gateway.

877. If Lambda deployed in a private vpc subnet how it can access DynamoDB table in public subnet?
  1) lambda->NAT gateway(in public subnet)->internet gateway->dynamoDB
  2) lambda->VPC endpoint (Gateway Endpoint) ->DynamoDB

878. Can Cloudwatch access lambda to get logs if lambda in private subnet?
  Yes, Cloudwatch can do it regardless of NAT or Internet gateway

879. What is the /tmp path size range for in AWS Lambda?
  512MB - 10 GB

880. Is /tmp path storage for lambda free of charge?
  No

881. Is /tmp path storage for lambda encrypted by default?
  No, you'll need to use KMS and implement encryption manually

882. What is max Lamba layer size?
  Unzipped context should be below 250MB.

883. How to mount EFS for lambda?
  Lambda and EFS should be in a same vpc.
  Path should be specified during configuration. Must leverage EFS Access Points.
  Each lambda instance creates new connection to EFS

884. What are restrictions to be considered while uploading Lambda with it's dependencies?
  Should be a zip file.
  If above 50 MB in size should be deployed as link to S3
  Native libraries should be compliced in Amazon Linux beforehand
  AWS SDK should not be packaged with the function (already present in runtime)

885. What are Lambda Container Images and how are they used?
  Lambda Container Images are Docker images that implement the Lambda Runtime API, available in different languages.
  These images allow for local testing using the Lambda Runtime Interface Emulator.
  Before deploying to Lambda, the containers should be built and pushed to Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR).

886. What lambda version stands for?
  combination of certain code version + configuration. It is immutable

887. Does Lambda Alias have its own ARN?
  Yes

888. Does Lambda's Function URL supports CORS configurations?
  Yes

889. Can Lambda's Function URL be associated with "$LATEST", certain alias, certain version?
  "$LATEST" and aliases - yes
  certain version - no

890. How can access to AWS Lambda's Function URL be controlled?
  Access to AWS Lambda's Function URL can be controlled through IAM policies attached to the function. In the condition section 'FunctionUrlAuthType' can define:
    - 'NONE' for public access (commonly used with 'Principal': '*').
    - 'AWS_IAM' where both resource-based and identity-based policies are evaluated. For access within the same account, either a resource-based or identity-based policy marked as ALLOW is sufficient. For cross-account access, both policies are required to grant permission.

891. What does AWS CodeGuru Profiling do for AWS Lambda?
  AWS CodeGuru Profiling provides insights into the runtime performance of your Lambda function.

  Supported runtimes are Java and Python.

  When activated, CodeGuru adds a Profiler layer, environment variables, and the AmazonCodeGuruProfilerAgentAccess policy to your Lambda function, creating a Profiler Group for detailed performance analysis.

892. Lambda memmory size is between 128 MB and 10GB. What is step in memmory increase?
  1MB

893. What is Lambda code + dependency size limit?
  50 MB for zipped folder and 250 MB for uncompressed

894. How to load files above 250 MB on Lambda startup?
  Use /tmp for loading them

895. What data types are supported for DynamoDB Table item?
  Scalar Types: String, number, boolean, null, binary
  Document Types: List, Map
  Set type: string set, number set, binary set

896. What type can be DynamoDB Table partition key?
  string | number | binary

897. What DynamoDB mode available under free tier on-demand or provisioned?
  Provisioned

898. How often can I switch from on-demand to provisioned and vise versa in context of Dynamo DB?
  At most once per 24 hours

899. What is write capacity unit WCU and read capacity unit RCU  in DynamoDB?
  WCU -  1 item with size up to 1KB per 1 second. size of item rounded to closest upper digit
  RCU for strongly consistent read - 1 item up to 4 KB in size per second
  RCU for eventyally consistent read - 2 item up to 4 KB in size per second
  transactional opperation rerquire twice as many units as WCU strongly consistent RCU

900. List DynamoDB write operations.
  PutItem - create/replace item, it Consumes WCUs

  UpdateItem - edits an existing item's attributes or adds a new item if it doesn’t exist. It can be used to implement Atomic Counters – a numeric attribute that’s unconditionally incremented.

  Conditional Writes - Accept a write/update/delete only if conditions are met, otherwise returns an error, may help with Helps with concurrent access.

901. List DynamoDB read operations.
  GetItem - Read based on Primary key. Mode (ConsistentRead) should be specified or consistent read is used.
  `ProjectionExpression` can be specified to retrieve only certain attributes

  Query - returns items based on:
    - KeyConditionExpression:
      Partition Key value (must be = operator) – required
      Sort Key value (=, <, <=, >, >=, Between, Begins with) – optional

    - FilterExpression - Additional filtering after the Query operation (before data returned to you). Use it only with non-key attributes (does not allow HASH or RANGE attributes)

  It returns number of items specified in Limit or up to 1 MB of data. There is an Ability to do pagination (ExclusiveStartKey, LastEvaluatedKey )on the results. You can query table, a Local Secondary Index, or a Global Secondary Index

  Scan - reads an entire table, returns up to 1 MB of data. There is a posibility to limit output quantity with 'Limit' attribute.

902. List DynamoDB delete operations.
  DeleteItem - also include ability for conditional delete

  DeleteTable

903. What are the key characteristics of DynamoDB Batch Operations, and what are the specific functions for batch write and batch get?

  DynamoDB Batch Operations can process multiple items in parallel, and part of a batch may fail, requiring a retry for failed items.
  They can handle up to 16 MB of data.

  BatchWriteItem: Allows up to 25 `PutItem` and/or `DeleteItem `operations in one call, with each item up to 400 KB. Failed items are returned as 'UnprocessedItems'.

  BatchGetItem: Can retrieve up to 100 items from one or more tables. Failed items are returned as 'UnprocessedKeys'.

  Note: There is no batch version of the UpdateItem command.

904. What is partiql?
  SQL like language for DynamoDB. Except joins, DynamoDB does not support them

905. Describe Conditional Writes into DynamoDB, what attributes may be used?
  may be used with PutItem, UpdateItem, DeleteItem, and BatchWriteItem
  list of function expressions to be used with it
    - attribute_exists
    - attribute_not_exists
    - attribute_type
    - contains (for string)
    - begins_with (for string)
    - IN (:cat1, :cat2)
    - between :low and :high
    - size (string length, commonly used to get string length and compare it to int with comparator)

906. How can you prevent the overriding of an item in DynamoDB?
  To prevent the overriding of an item in DynamoDB, use the condition expression attribute_not_exists(partition_key) during a write operation.

  If there is a sort key, the condition should be extended to attribute_not_exists(partition_key) and attribute_not_exists(sort_key).

  This ensures the item is only written if the specified keys do not already exist in the table.

907. What is max limit of local secondary indexes and global secondary indexes in Dynamo DB?
  up to 5 local secondary indexes
  up to 20   global secondary indexes

908. Does both local secondary indexes (LSI) and global secondary indexes (GSI) in Dynamo DB supports strongly consistent and eventually consistent reads?
  LSI - support both strongly consistent and eventually consistent reads.
  GSI - support only eventually consistent reads

909. What does `Attribute projection` mean in context of DynamoDB indexes? What are possible values?
  set of attributes that may be returned once index is used:
  All - all attributes
  keys_only - primary key + sort Key
  include - keys_only + custom field defined during index creation

910. Can you directly query two secondary indexes (or two local indexes) at the same time in a single query operation in DynamoDB?
  No

911. Can DynamoDB items be queries by main table sort key and local index sort key?
  No, you always query eigher by main table or index, not both.

912. How does the 'projection type' in DynamoDB indexes affect Write Capacity Units (WCU) consumption?
  In DynamoDB, the 'projection type' determines which attributes from the main table are copied into a secondary index.

  The more attributes you project into an index, the higher the WCU consumption when you write to the table.

  This is because DynamoDB needs to update both the main table and each secondary index with the projected attributes.

913. What is "Optimistic Locking" in the context of DynamoDB, and how does it work?
  Optimistic Locking in DynamoDB is a strategy used to ensure that an item hasn't changed before you update or delete it.
  This is implemented by adding a version number attribute to each item.
  When you perform an update or delete, you include a condition that the version number hasn't changed.
  If the condition is not met 'ConditionalCheckFailedException' is raised.

914. What is DynamoDB Accelerator (DAX)? What problem it may solve?
  it is in-memory cache for DynamoDB. Only DAX Cluster should be created. requests would go though it and in case cache miss request would be forwarded to DynamoDB Table.
  Dax Cluster ma be configured as multi AZ (at least 3 nodes are recommended for prod)
  May be used to solve hot key problem.
  Default TTL for cache is 5 minite.

915. What is max number of nodes of DAX Cluster?
  11

916. Describe security features in DAX?
  there is encryption at rest with KMS.
  it can be placed into VPC
  IAM roles may be used to confugure access

917. What are use cases for DAX and ElastiCache?
  DAX - individual objects, queries, scan
  ElasticCache - store aggregation results of client side work

  So they may be used together: store results of queries in DAX, implement bussiness logic to be applied on these results, store this aggreagation in ElastiCache to prevent bussiness logic to be triggered again.

918. What are node families of DAX nodes?
  t-type - provides basiline CPU with ability to burst
  r-type - each node assosiated with fixed resource for always-ready capacity

919. What ingress ports should be open for DAX integration to allow both standard and encrypted traffic?
  open port 8111 for standard traffic and port 9111 for encrypted traffic.

920. What can act as a DynamoDB Stream consumer?
  Kinesis Data Stream
  AWS Lambda
  Kinesis Client Library app (usually used by ec2 or container)

921. What are use cases for DynamoDB stream?
  - react to real time event (send message to user)
  - analytics
  - insert data into derevative tables
  - Insert into OpenSearch Service for indexing and additional search capabilities on top of DynamoDB
  - implement cross region replication

922. What are `StreamViewType` options may be used for DynamoDB Stream and what does it mean?
  It specifies the information that will be written to the stream whenever data in the table is modified
  - KEYS_ONLY
  - NEW_IMAGE
  - OLD_IMAGE
  - NEW_AND_OLD_IMAGES

923. Does DynamoDB stream uses shards?
  Yes, that's why it can be consumed by Kinesis Client Library. Unlike KDS you do not need to provision shards

924. Does record of past event modifications would be accessible once DynamoDB stream are enabled?
  No, events would not be populated retroactivelly

925. How does TTL (Time to Live) work for a DynamoDB table?
  a custom attribute should be used as TTL field. TTL is unix timestamp. record may be potentially viewed withing 48 hours after ttl has been reached.

926. What are transactional operations names for DynamoDB?
  TransactGetItems - 1 or more GetItem operation
  TransactWriteItems - one or more PutItem, UpdateItem, and DeleteItem operations

927. Why is DynamoDB Write Sharding used, and what is a practical example of its use?
  DynamoDB Write Sharding involves adding a random or hash prefix to the partition key to distribute writes across multiple partitions and avoid hot partitions.

  A use case example is a voting app, where multiple users might vote for the same option, causing frequent updates to a single item.

928. What are the options for copying a DynamoDB table?
  AWS Data Pipeline: Utilize a pipeline on an Amazon EMR cluster to read from the target table, write the data to S3, then read from S3 and write to a new table.

  Backup and Restore: backup and restore into a new table (more efficient and not require other services)

  Scan and Batch Write: modifications of data may be implemented if required

929. What is DynamoDB Local?
  feature that emulates DynamoDB locally without internet

930. What 'LeadingKeys' attribute does in context of DynamoDB?
  it allows to limit access to certain row(s) in DynamoDB table. Leading Keys are usually used in combination with federated users

931. What are API Gateway Endpoint types?
  global, Edge optimized (default)
  regional
  Private (only rest api)

932. How User Authentication  can be implemented in Api gateway?
  -  IAM Roles (useful for internal applications)
  -  Cognito (identity for external users)
  -  Custom Authorizer (your own logic)

933. Does API Gateway support HTTPS, and what are the specific requirements for Edge-Optimized endpoints?
  Yes, API Gateway supports HTTPS through integration with AWS Certificate Manager (ACM).
  For Edge-Optimized endpoints, the SSL/TLS certificate must be managed in the us-east-1.
  Additionally, you must set up a CNAME or an A-alias record in Route 53 to point to the API Gateway endpoint.

934. How to access stage variable in API Gateway?
  {$stageVariables.VariableName}

935. What are the different integration types available in API Gateway, and what are their key characteristics?
  - Mock
  - HTTP / AWS (Lambda & AWS Services): Allows the use of mapping templates to add headers, modify the body, and adjust query parameters using the Velocity Template Language. Supported content types include application/json or application/xml.
  - AWS_PROXY (Lambda Proxy): Directly passes all parameters (headers, query string, etc.) to the Lambda function without allowing mapping templates.
  - HTTP_PROXY: Similar to AWS_PROXY but for HTTP backends. It allows the addition of HTTP headers but does not support mapping templates.

936. How do you set up request validation using OpenAPI in API Gateway?
  specify the `x-amazon-apigateway-request-validator property` in your OpenAPI specification (definition file)

  This property configures the request validator at the API Gateway level.

937. Now cache settings are defined in API Gateway?
  Caches are defined per stage. It's possible to override cache settings per method

938. Can API Gateway cache be encrypted?
  Yes, but it's not encrypted by default

939. What is API Gateway cache size?
  0.5 GB - 237GB

940. For how long requests can be cached in API Gateway?
  from 0 seconds to 1 hour, default 5 minutes.

941. How to invalidate cache in API Gateway?
  1. Through the API Gateway UI by flushing all cache.
  2. CLI/SDK
  3. `Cache-Control`: `max-age=0` request from client, if no specific cache invalidation policy is set (does not flush the cache)

942. How to prevent users from invalidating per-key cache in API Gateway?
  Request should include authorization option

943. How client should use api key of api gateway?
  pass it in 'x-api-key' header in each request

944. What metrics of CloudWatch provides info on caching?
  CacheHitCount & CacheMissCount

945. What does the "count" metric in CloudWatch indicate for API Gateway?
  The "count" metric in CloudWatch for API Gateway indicates the total number of API requests received in a given period.

946. What may cause a 429 "Too Many Requests" error when calling API Gateway?
  A 429 "Too Many Requests" error in API Gateway is typically caused by reaching the throttling limit, which is set at 10,000 requests per second across all APIs. This is a soft limit that can be increased upon request.

947. What are Stage and Method limits in the context of API Gateway, and how do they function?
  In API Gateway, Stage and Method limits allow administrators to allocate a portion of the overall allowable requests per second (typically 1000 rps) to specific stages or methods.
  This helps better manage traffic and protect against DDoS attacks.

948. What are common use cases for API Gateway Resource Policies?
  - cross account access
  - access from certain ip range
  - access only from specific vpc

949. Explain Http vs Rest API in API Gateway?
  - http api is cheaper
  - http does not support Resource Policies
  - http can only be created as regional API
  - only Rest API allows WAF, API keys, Caching, Canary release deployments.
  - Rest API has all api gateway features except (except Native OpenID Connect / OAuth 2.0)

950. How do you send a message back to a client using API Gateway WebSocket API?
  To send a message back to a client in API Gateway WebSocket API, make an HTTP POST call to the Connection URL callback.
  This URL is similar to the API URL but includes '/@connections/connectionId' at the end.
  Besides POST, you may send a GET request to get the latest connection status of the connected WebSocket client or a DELETE request to disconnect the client.

951. In API Gateway WebSocket API, how can you use a "request route selection expression" to route client requests?
  In API Gateway WebSocket API, you can use a "request route selection expression" to choose a specific field in the JSON message to determine routing.
  A common use case is $request.body.action, which routes the request based on the 'action' field in the JSON.
  For example, if the 'action' in JSON is 'sendMessage', the request will be routed to a Lambda function integrated with the 'sendMessage' route, or to the $default route if no specific route is matched.

952. What sources can be used for AWS CodePipeline?
  CodeCommit, ECR, S3, Bitbucket, GitHub.

953. What build tools can be used for AWS CodePipeline?
  CodeBuild, Jenkins, CloudBees, TeamCity.

954. What Test tools can be used for AWS CodePipeline?
  CodeBuild, AWS Device Farm, 3rd party tools

955. What deployment tools can be used for AWS CodePipeline?
  CodeDeploy, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudFormation

956. What Invocations can be triggered from  AWS CodePipeline?
  Lambda, Step Functions.

957.  What can be a target for AWS CodeDeploy?
  - EC2 (CodeDeploy Agent required)
  - ECS
  - Lambda
  - on-premises server (CodeDeploy Agent required)

958. Does CodePipeline has a direct integration with EC2 or Elastic Beanstalk?
  Elastic Beanstalk

959. How are actions organized within stages in AWS CodePipeline?
  In AWS CodePipeline, actions are organized into action groups within a stage (source, build, test, deploy etc).

  Each stage can contain multiple action groups, but each action group is associated with only one stage.

  Actions within a group can be executed either sequentially or in parallel.

  examples of action:
    - Retrieve source code
    - build app with codeBuild
    - deploy app to AWS Elastic Beanstalk

960. Describe monitoring tools for AWS CodeBuild?
  - for logs: Amazon CloudWatch / S3
  - for metrics: Metrics
  - to detect failed builds and notifications: EventBridge
  - to monitor threshold of failed builds: Cloudwatch alarm

961. In which AWS service code build may be defined?
  CodeBuild or CodePipeline

962. Front: What is the structure of a buildspec.yml file for AWS CodeBuild?
  version:
  env: hardcoded or env/parameter-store or env/secrets-manager
  phases:
    phases/install/commands
    phases/install/runtime-versions
    phases/pre_build/commands
    phases/build/commands
    phases/post_build/commands
  artifacts: Sspecify s3 and possible encryption
  cache: files to cache (e.g., dependencies) in Amazon S3

963. What are options for deployment speed into EC2/on-premises with CodeDeploy?
  AllAtOnce: most downtime
  HalfAtATime: reduced capacity by 50%
  OneAtATime: slowest, lowest availability impact
  Custom: define your %

964. What is the principal difference between Blue/Green deployment and other deployment options?
  Blue/Green deployment creates a new auto-scaling group instead of replacing instances in the old one, and the Application Load Balancer (ALB) will point to this new group.

965. What is the main purpose of CodeDeploy being used with lambdas?
  It helps you to automate trafic shifts for lambda aliases.

966. What are the strategies for CodeDeploy lambda deploment?
  - LambdaLinear10PercentEvery1|2|3|10Minutes
  - LambdaCanary10Percent5|10|15|30Minutes
  - LambdaAllAtOnce

967. What is the main purpose of using CodeDeploy with ECS, and what deployment options does it support?
  CodeDeploy automates the deployment of a new ECS Task and supports Blue/Green Deployments.
  It creates a new target group in the same ECS Cluster and switches traffic from the ALB to the new group.
  CodeDeploy supports three deployment types: Linear, Canary, and All-at-once.

968. Can Deployment startegy for CodeDeploy be defined in appspec.yml?
  No, only console/CLI can be used

969. In context of codedeploy, is it possible to disable rollback option for certain deployment?
  Yes.

970. Does the artifact of AWS CodeArtifact stay within a VPC?
  No, AWS CodeArtifact artifacts do not inherently stay within a VPC as it is a managed service.
  However, you can configure VPC endpoints to interact with CodeArtifact securely within your VPC.

971. What is Domain in context of AWS CodeArtifact?
  It's a set of repositories, it can serve as a proxy for npm, such dependencies may be cached in given repo (assured that code would work if dependency is deleted from npm). Also it may serve for pubkishing your own private packages.

972. What is a "Domain" in the context of AWS CodeArtifact?
  In AWS CodeArtifact, a "Domain" is a set of repositories.

  It can serve as a proxy for package managers like npm, caching dependencies to ensure stability if they are deleted from the public source.

  Additionally, it allows for publishing your own private packages.

973. What are use cases for AWS CodeArtifact?
  - Domain can serve as a proxy for npm, such dependencies may be cached in given repo (assured that code would work if dependency is deleted from npm).
  - Also it may serve for publishing your own private packages.
  - Commonly used with AWS CodeBuild for fetching during build phase.
  - other common use case is integration with EventBridge (codeArtifact -> eventBridge -> codePipeline).

974. Is it possible to setup multi-account access to CodeArfifact with access to only certaing dependencies?
  No, resourse based policy would eigher allow access to all packages in repository or none.

975. Can one AWS CodeArtifact repository can serve as an upstream repository for another CodeArtifact repository?
  Yes

976. At what level resource policy may be applied to AWS CodeAtrifact?
  domain or repository

977. What does Amazon CodeGuru do?
  Amazon CodeGuru is a ML-powered service for automated code review and application performance recommendations.

978. What components CodeGury consists of and what they do?
  CodeGuru Reviewer: automated code reviews for static code analysis (development)
  CodeGuru Profiler: visibility/recommendations about application performance during runtime (production). It works both for build & test stage and for prod measurment

979. Which services can be reviewed by Amazon CodeGuru?
  EC2, Lambda, Fargate, on-premises servers

980. For which services is the installation of the CodeGuru Profiler agent required?
  EC2, Fargate, on-premises servers

981. What are the configuration options for the CodeGuru Profiler agent?
  - MaxStackDepth

  - MemoryUsageLimitPercent

  - MinimumTimeForReportingInMilliseconds

  - ReportingIntervalInMilliseconds

  - SamplingIntervalInMilliseconds

982. Which AWS service is best suited for sending notifications when a CodePipeline pipeline fails?
  The best practice is to set up an AWS CloudWatch Event Rule to send notifications when a CodePipeline pipeline fails.

983. Is it possible to SSH into a CodeBuild container if the build has failed?
  No, once build failed codebuild container is deleted

984. Can AWS CodeBuild containers be configured to run within a VPC?
  Yes, you can configure AWS CodeBuild to run its build containers within a VPC, allowing them to access private resources such as databases and internal load balancers.

985. How do you define deployment hooks using AWS SAM (Serverless Application Model)?
  in AWS SAM template under DeploymentPreferences  specify Hooks with options like PreTraffic and PostTraffic, referencing lambdas such as !Ref lambdaWithHook.

  Use AutoPublishAlias set to 'live' to manage Lambda function aliases automatically.

986. How can multiple environments be set up for AWS SAM?
  in samconfig.toml

  during deployment use parameter --config-env envnamehere.

987. What service can be used for storing and sharing reusable applications accross acounts?
  AWS Serverless Application Repository

988. What is the AWS Toolkit?
  It's an Tan extension for integrated development environments (IDEs), including AWS Cloud9

989. CDK vs SAM, which supports all aws services?
  CDK

990. What "cdk synth" does?
  generate cloudformation template. Later on it can be used with 'sam local invoke' for local development

991. Describe common cdk commands.
  cdk init app   Create a new CDK project from a specified template
  cdk synth      Synthesizes and prints the CloudFormation template
  cdk bootstrap  Deploys the CDK Toolkit staging Stack
  cdk deploy     Deploy the Stack(s)
  cdk diff       View differences of local CDK and deployed Stack
  cdk destroy    Destroy the Stack(s)

992. How can you import a stack into CDK tests?
  In CDK tests, you can import a stack in two ways:
    Use Template.fromStack(stackName) for stacks built with CDK.
    Use Template.fromString(templateAsAString) for stacks built outside of CDK.

993. What options AWS Cognito provides? Describe them.
  Cognito user pools:
    - sign in functionality for app users
    - has integration with API gateway and ALB nativelly

  Cognito Identity Pools (Federated Identity):
    - provides aws credentials for direct access to come aws resources
    - has integration with Cognito user pools as identity provider

994. What are keywords in certitfication questions regarding AWS Cognito?
  "hundreds of users"
  "mobile users"
  "authenticate with SAML"

995. What is Cognito user pools and what features it provides?
  - It creates a serverless database of user for your web & mobile apps.
  - Provides options for simple login (login/password) or federated identity (Facebook, Google,  Apple, Amazon, SAML, Open IDConnect)
  - provides email/phone verification
  - password reset/restorataion
  - mfa
  - user can be blocked if user compromised
  - sends back JSON Web Token

996. How email messages can be send with Cognito?
  - via SES
  - by Cognito itself (up to 50 emails per day)

997. What domain Cognito UI would use?
  - cognito domain (you can add prefix)
  - custom domain (you must create an ACM certificate in us-east-1, The custom domain must be defined in the “App Integration” section)

998. How can you execute custom logic on AWS Cognito User Pool events?
  In AWS Cognito User Pools, you can add Lambda triggers under the User Pool properties to execute custom logic.

  Available trigger are (can be trigered berofe/after event):
    - Sign-up
    - Authentication
    - Custom Authentication (captcha or security question)
    - Messaging (email or SMS messages, sender, and localization).

999. What are the available Lambda triggers for AWS Cognito User Pools?
  - Pre Authentication: Custom validation to accept or deny the sign-in request.
  - Post Authentication: Event logging for custom analytics.
  - Pre Token Generation: Add or remove attributes in ID tokens.
  - Pre Sign-up: Validation to accept or deny the sign-up request.
  - Post Confirmation: Custom welcome messages or event logging for custom analytics.
  - Migrate User: Migrate a user from an existing user directory to User Pools.
  - Custom Message: Advanced customization and localization of messages.

1000. How can a user be authenticated in an Application Load Balancer (ALB)?
  - Use an Identity Provider (IdP), such as OpenID Connect, or AWS Cognito User Pools.
  - Set up an HTTPS listener for authentication via Cognito or an IdP.

1001. What are the options for identity sources in AWS Cognito Identity Pools (federated identities)?
  - Public providers (Amazon, Facebook, Google, Apple).
  - Users from a Cognito User Pool.
  - OpenID Connect Providers and SAML Identity Providers.
  - Developer Authenticated Identities (custom login server).
  - Unauthenticated (guest) access.

1002. What does access identification via AWS Cognito Identity Pools provide?
  Access identification via Cognito Identity Pools provides temporary AWS credentials to users.

  The IAM policies applied to these credentials are initially defined by Cognito but can be customized based on the user_id for fine-grained access control.

1003. How does authentication with AWS Cognito Identity Pools work?
  1. app goes to identity provider to get token
  2. app exchanges token for temporary aws credentials via Cognito Identity pools
  3. Cognito Identity pools (CIP) validates received token
    If token valid CIP gets temporary credentials out of AWS STS and return them to app
  4. App uses creds for acess to aws resources (most oftenly S3 or DynamoDB)

1004. After a successful login using Cognito User Pools, it sends a JWT Token or SAML Token?
  JWT

1005. Step function workflow may be described as code. Would it use yaml or json?
  json, it's written with amazon state language (ASL)

1006. Does step function provides execution history?
  yes

1007. What are the different states available in AWS Step Functions?
  Choice - Chooses the execution branch based on input, with a possible default option.
  Fail/Success - Stops the execution and reports a success or failure.
  Pass - Passes its input to its output, optionally injecting or modifying data.
  Wait - Introduces a delay for a specified amount of time.
  Map - Runs a parallel workflow for each item in a dataset, dynamically iterating states.
  Parallel - Initiates parallel branches of execution.

1008. What is the difference between Standard and Express Workflow in step function?
  - time: up to 1 year in standard and up to 5 minutes in expression

  - execution rate: 2 000/sec for standard, 100 000/sec for express

  - cost: billed per state transition in standard; express billed for number of invocations, duration and memory consumed

  - Execution History: standard keeps input, output for each state for 90 days of execution history; express only provides execution history in cloudwatch.

  - error handling: built-in error handling with retries and catch blocks for standard, fewer options for express

1009. What are use cases for Standard and Express Workflow in step function?
  - Standard Workflows are designed for non-idempotent, long-running, durable, and auditable workflows.
  - Express Workflows are designed for high-speed, high-volume workflows, making them ideal for data processing tasks, streaming data processing, and IoT applications.

1010. How many times step function is executed depending of Workflow?
  exectly 1 for standard workflow
  at least 1 for asynchronous express workflow
  at most 1 for synchronous express workflow

1011. What is default retry quantity for step function's retry block?
  3

1012. When step function's catch block would be used?
  once function failed and all retries have been finished

1013. Where error from step-function 'Catch' clock would be placed?
  in attribute specified in ResultPath'. All other function's properties stored as is

1014. Does AppSync folows pub/sub pattern?
  yes

1015. What type of API can be created with AppSync?
  GraphQL API - single endpoint to query or update data
  Merged API - group of GraphQL API owned by different teams, composing a single GraphQL Schema. It requires to authorize client only in a single API client

1016. How to ensure security in integration between an app and AppSync?
  - API_KEY
  - AWS_IAM: IAM users / roles / cross-account access
  - OPENID_CONNECT: OpenID Connect provider / JSON Web Token
  - AMAZON_COGNITO_USER_POOLS

1017. Does AppSync supports caching?
  Yes, it can be no caching, caching per user, caching per resolver

1018. Is it recommended to use AWS CloudFront in front of AWS AppSync, and why?
  Yes, it is. For enabling https or custom domain.

1019. What is AWS Amplify?
  It's a set of tools to create mobile and front-end apps creation.
  Provides us with integration to DynamoDB, AWS AppSync, Amazon Cognito, S3 for backend.
  Provides Analytics integration with Amazon Kinesis/Amazon Pinpoint

  Also it provides ready-to-use component for frameworks (React.js, Vue, iOS, Android, Flutter and so on).

  App can be deployed from Amplify studio or amplify cli.

1020. What services AWS Amplify consists of?
  Amplify Studio - Visually build a full-stack app, both front-end UI and a backend.

  Amplify CLI - Configure an Amplify backend With a guided CLI workflow

  Amplify Libraries - required for connecting  your app to existing AWS Services (Cognito, S3 and more)

  Amplify Hosting - Host apps via the AWS content delivery network.

1021. Explain AWS Amplify auth feature.
  Once app created with 'apmlify init' you may call 'amplify add auth'. Provided authorization/authefication/fine grained acces is done with AWS Cognito. Supports MFA, account recovery, provides pre build UI components.

1022. Explain AWS Amplify datastore feature.
  Can be initialized with 'apmlify add api'. Levarage AWS AppSync and DynamoDB. provides authomatic data syncronization. Provides oflline data capabilities and visual data modelling.

1023. Explain AWS Amplify hosting feature.
  Can be initialized with 'apmlify add hosting'. Provides you with CICD, Custom domain, app monitoring, password protection. You app code may exist in some 3rd party git repository as a source of deploy.

1024. What is AWS STS and what operations does it support?
  AssumeRole: Assume an IAM role.
  AssumeRoleWithSAML: Return credentials for users logged in with SAML.
  AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity: Return credentials for users logged in with an identity provider (IdP) such as Facebook or Google. AWS recommends using Cognito Identity Pools instead.
  GetSessionToken: Useful for MFA, obtainable by a user or the AWS account root user.
  GetFederationToken: Obtain temporary credentials for a federated user.
  GetCallerIdentity: Returns details about the IAM user or role used in the API call.
  DecodeAuthorizationMessage: Decodes error messages when an AWS API call is denied.

1025. What is an inline IAM policy?
  An inline IAM policy is a policy that has a strict one-to-one relationship with a single IAM principal (user or group).
  Inline policies cannot be larger than 2KB and are specific to the user or group they are attached to.

1026. How can you pass an IAM role to another AWS service or entity?
  - Specify the action "iam:PassRole" and allow this action in the policy.
  - include the resource specifying the ARN of the IAM role to be passed.
  - add 'sts:AssumeRole' into trust policy of that IAM role

1027. Can you pass an IAM role to any service?
  No, an IAM role can only be passed to services or entities that are explicitly allowed by its trust policy.

1028. What is Microsoft Active Directory (AD)?
  Database of objects (can be found on any Microsoft server): User Accounts, Computers, Printers, File Shares, Security Groups.
  Is used for centralized security management, create account, assign permissions.
  Objects are organized in trees. A group of trees is called a forest.

1029. What is AWS Microsoft Directory Services?
  - AWS Managed Microsoft AD.
    Create your own AD in AWS, manage users locally, supports MFA
    Establish "trust" connections with your onpremise AD.
    Users are basically shared between AWS Managed Microsoft AD and on premise AD.

  - AD Connector
    Directory Gateway (proxy) to redirect to onpremise AD, supports MFA. Users are managed on the on-premise AD

  - Simple AD
    AD-compatible managed directory on AWS. Cannot be joined with on-premise AD. DOES NOT supports MFA

1030. Can Resource access kms key in no policy specified?
  No, that's why kms key policy is required

1031. What KMS API returns a random byte string?
  GenerateRandom

1032. What is HSM?
  - Dedicated Hardware (Hardware Security Module).
  - Allows you to manage encryption entirelly without AWS entrusion.
  - It supports both symmmetric amd asymetric encryption.
  - There is an integration with redshift.
  - Common use case is usage with SSE-C encryption.
  - Unlike KMS it supports hashing and provides Cryptographic Acceleration.
  - Deployed and managed into VPC. Access Can be shared across VPCs (VPC Peering).

1033. How to interact with CloudHSM?
  1) You can manage keys and user only with CloudHSM Software.
  2) You can configure KMS custom Key Store with CloudHSM, then use this for EBS, S3, RDS encryption

1034. Does HSM clusters are replicated in multiple AZ?
  yes

1035. Does SSM Parameter Store keys encrypted by default?
  No, but can be encrypted with KMS

1036. What types of parameters exists in AWS SSM?
  - string
  - string list (separated by commas)
  - secure string (kms encrypted)

1037. Does SSM Parameter store provides hierarchy ar is it flat?
  It provides hierarchy.

1038. What are AWS Systems Manager public parameters?
  AWS Systems Manager public parameters are publicly accessible data published by AWS services that provide information about common artifacts. For example, the Amazon EC2 service publishes information about AMIs

1039. What is ssm params limit (per each param)?
  4kb for standard and 8kb for advanced tier

1040. Can secure string can be returned in decrypted form from SSM?
  yes, use --with-decryption flag for CLI, make sure requestor have access to proper KMS key (Decrypt action)

1041. Which AWS service provides secret rotation SSM or Secrets Manager?
  Secrets Manager. You can link it to lambda that would manage secrets rotation (that would basically update RDS credentials to newly updated credentials).
  To do the same with SSM you'll need to setup Event Bridge to trigger lambda each N days. That lambda would update both SSM secret and value credentials in RDS.

1042. Which AWS services are integrated with AWS Secrets Manager?
  Amazon RDS
  Amazon Redshift
  Amazon DocumentDB

1043. Does Secrets Manager provides secrets encryption?
  Yes, it's mandatory, via KMS

1044. Does AWS Secrets Manager support multi-region replication of secrets, and is it the default behavior?
  Yes, it supports multi-region replication but it should be configured manually.

1045. Can multiple values be stored as key-value pairs within a single secret in AWS Secrets Manager?
  Yes

1046. what is AWS Nitro Enclaves?
  service allowing to process highly sensitive data in an isolated compute environment.
  VM with no external network, no interactive access (ssh), no persistent storage and highly constrained.
  It has Cryptographic Attestation feature that allows only authorized (signed) code to run.
  common use cases are securing private keys, processing credit cards, secure multi-party computation.
  Can be achived by starting EC with EnclaveOption=true
  Enclave is a separete VM with it's own kernel, cpu, memmory.
  If you uses EC2 with Nitro Hypervisor, EC2 instance has separation from Enclaves instance, but can communicate via secure local channel. However, any other ec2 instances cannot communicate with that enclave instance.

1047. Does SES provides ability to receive emails?
  Actually yes, that would trigger sns, s3, or lambda

1048. What modes Amazon OpenSearch can run in?
  managed cluster or serverless cluster

1049. Does Amazon Amazon OpenSearch support sql?
  nativelly - no, but can be enabled with proper plugin

1050. What is a common use case for AWS OpenSearch Service?
  AWS OpenSearch Service is often used as an auxiliary database for searching and indexing data, which can later be retrieved in more detail from the original database.

1051. What are common patterns of sending data from Kinesis Data Stream to OpenSearch?
 - via lambda
 - via Kinesis Data Firehose with lambda thats performs transformation of data

1053. What are the most common use cases for Amazon Athena?
  analyze data in S3 using serverless SQL

1054. What are common ways to improve Amazon Athena performance?
  1) Use columnar data for cost-savings (less scan)
     Apache Parquet or ORC is recommended
     Use Glue to convert your data to Parquet or ORC
  2) Compress data for smaller retrievals
  3) Partition datasets in S3 for easy querying on virtual columns
      Example: s3://athena-examples/flight/parquet/year=1991/month=1/day=1/
  4) Use larger files (> 128 MB) to minimize overhead

1055. Explain Amazon Athena Federated Query feature?
  It allows you to run SQL queries across data stored in relational, non-relational, object, and custom data sources (AWS ot on-premises)

  It uses Data Source Connectors that run on AWS Lambda to run Federated Queries. (one lambda per data connector)

  Store the results back in Amazon S3

1056. What is Amazon Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (MSK)?
  Amazon MSK is a managed service that use Apache Kafka to process streaming data.
  MSK manages the setup, scaling, and maintenance of Kafka clusters, including the Kafka brokers and Zookeeper nodes.

  Key features include:
    - Cluster creation, updates, and deletion.
    - Deployment in a VPC, supporting multi-AZ for high availability.
    - Persistent data storage on EBS volumes.
    - An MSK Serverless option which runs Apache Kafka without requiring capacity management

1057. Explain differences between Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) and Amazon MSK for Apache Kafka.
  message size:
    KDS - 1MB
    MSK - 1MB Default, 10MB max

  data organizarion form:
    KDS - Data Streams with Shards
    MSK - Kafka Topics with Partitions

  merging/spliting data:
    KDS - Shard Splitting & Merging
    MSK - Can only add partitions to a topic

  In-flight Encryption
    KDS - TLS
    MSK - PLAINTEXT or TLS

  KMS at-rest encryption
    both

1058. What are possible consumers for Amazon MSK?
  - Kinesis Data Analytics for Apache Flink
  - AWS Glue (Streaming ETL Jobs)
  - Lambda
  - Applications Running on ECS/EKS/EC2

1059. Does AWS Certificate Manager Free of charge for TLS certificates?
  For public sertificates - yes
  For private sertificates - no

1060. Does AWS Certificate Manager provide automatic TLS certificate renewal for both private and public certificates, and for both ACM-issued and imported TLS certificates?
  AWS Certificate Manager provides automatic TLS certificate renewal for ACM-issued public and private certificates.

1061. How does AWS Macie notify about security findings?
  through Amazon CloudWatch Events.
  Additionally, users can export findings to Amazon S3

1062. What is AWS AppConfig and its common use cases?
  AWS AppConfig is a service for managing/validation/deploy/dynamic dynamic configurations to your applications independently of code deployments.
  It allows use of feature flags, updating allow/block lists, and gradual deployment of configurations without app restart.
  It's commonly used with AWS proveded compute services

1063. What can be an AppConfig store?
  - AWS Secrets Manager
  - Systems Manager Parameter Store
  - Amazon S3

1064. What triggers a rollback in AWS AppConfig if a configuration change breaks an application?
  AWS AppConfig triggers a rollback if a configuration change breaks the application and consequently activates a CloudWatch alarm.

1065. What are options for AppConfig validation (optional)?
  - JSON schema validation
  - Lambda function

1066. What is CloudWatch Evidently?
  Feature of CloudWatch to Safely validate new features by serving them to a specified % of your users to reduce risk and collecting experiment data (including performance).
  Common use cases are feature flags and A/B testing (comparing multiple versions of the same feature).

1067. What is Overrides in context of CloudWatch Evidently?
  Feature that pre-define a variation for a specific user. For example tester only see app with new feature, and there is no randomness.

1068. Where experimental data from CloudWatch Evidently are stored?
  CloudWatch Logs or S3

1069. What is max batch limit for lambda using sqs?
  10 for FIFO
  10 000 for standard

validated phase

last validated 936

extra repetition cycle is OFF

collapse all ctrl+k ctrl+0

extend all ctrl+k ctrl+j
